[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Is the Green New Deal a Good Deal?", "full_text": " letters Readers respond to columns by Bret Stephens, David Brooks and Ross Douthat. To the Editor: Re “Is Nancy Pelosi a Climate Skeptic?” (column, Feb. 16): Bret Stephens presents us with a fake binary choice. Either we gear up to fight climate change as if it were an alien invasion, placing capitalism in jeopardy, or we treat it as a “real but manageable problem” like global poverty, worthy of patient resolution. He urges us to make our peace with patient resolution. The Green New Deal’s authors are doing us a favor by refusing to sugarcoat the need for fundamental change in the way we run our lives and fuel our economy. President Trump’s defiant embrace of fossil fuels is an insult to common sense and global decency, but even President Barack Obama’s policy reforms left gas-guzzling cars on our roads, leaky homes throughout our towns and cities, and industries with their energy-wasteful operations unchecked.  We have lost too much time pretending that climate change can be dealt with gradually, if at all. The Green New Deal rightly demands that we rise to the urgency of this challenge. Philip WarburgNewton, Mass. The writer is a nonresident senior fellow at Boston University’s Institute for Sustainable Energy. To the Editor: Re “How the Left Embraced Elitism,” by David Brooks (column, Feb. 12): To suggest that a Green New Deal will evolve into a colossal government-owned enterprise controlling most aspects of our economy and run by bureaucrats housed in Pentagon-size offices is reactionary. This doesn’t even happen in China anymore.  A Green New Deal will be enabled by the government just as it has enabled every modern high-tech industry today: by funding (military technology, the space program), by direct purchases (supercomputers, semiconductors), by market subsidies (wind power, solar power, electric vehicles), by technology transfer out of government labs and programs (the internet, genomics, satellites), and the list goes on.  The government doesn’t build things; private industries do, and they reap the commercial benefit. There are thousands of start-up companies commercializing technologies in which the underlying research and development have been funded by the government, and there could be thousands more engaged in a Green New Deal if the government undertakes it.  John FairbornNewport Beach, Calif. To the Editor: Re “One Cheer for the Green New Deal” (column, Feb. 10): Before Ross Douthat dismisses carbon taxes as falling “heavily on the working class,” he should study the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act just introduced in Congress, to almost no fanfare.  It will reduce emissions more than the Paris agreement or President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan; it requires no big government spending; and it already has generated bipartisan support. The critical difference between this legislation and other carbon tax proposals is that all fees collected would be returned directly to American households each month. Most of the working class will actually come out ahead if this legislation passes.  It’s a Green New Deal right under our noses! Laura SchumacherSan Diego To the Editor: Ross Douthat’s patronizing take on the ambitions of the Green New Deal misses the most critical point: Scientists agree that humanity has a very short window in which to transform our systems of generating and using energy.  The alternative is stronger, more frequent hurricanes, droughts, floods, famines and wildfires, costing lives and livelihoods on a global scale. If this doesn’t call for great ambition, what does? Sarah RichardsonNew York", "id": "5c6db4c23a125f5075c0aa87", "date": "2019-02-20T20:11:20+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Senate’s ‘Sham Vote’ on the Green New Deal", "full_text": " letters Readers berate politicians for not taking action on climate change. To the Editor: Re “Where’s Your Climate Plan, Mr. McConnell?,” by Michelle Cottle (Editorial Observer, March 27): When Senator Mitch McConnell called for a sham vote on the Green New Deal, he ignored the stark reality of climate change. The flooded residents of Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota, who lack access to food, medicine and drinking water, don’t think climate change is a hoax. Nor do farmers in Nebraska, whose governor pronounced recent floods “the most widespread destruction we have ever seen in our state’s history.” What would Mr. McConnell say to residents of Paradise, Calif., whose entire community burned to the ground? Or to people in Puerto Rico, North Carolina, Houston or the Florida Panhandle, still recovering from devastating hurricanes? Perhaps he prefers to fiddle like the infamous Nero — but now it’s more than a single city on fire. Instead, it’s our fragile planet, the only one we’ve got. Liza KetchumWatertown, Mass. To the Editor: Re “Green New Deal Is Mocked, and Blocked, by the Senate” (news article, March 27): This week Republicans stuck their tongues out at leaders who are trying to work out a plan to limit the catastrophic warming of the planet. Several of these politicians then proceeded to a “$500-a-plate fund-raiser” held at “the chief lobbying group for the coal industry.” I am 37 years old and have two small children. I am not old or arrogant enough to ignore the dire warnings of the vast majority of climate scientists, who have been analyzing mountains of data for decades. Because they belong to the fossil fuel industry, these politicians will continue to roll their eyes instead of rolling up their sleeves and getting to work on climate change. We need to strengthen our democracy so we can elect more politicians who give a damn about people. Gillian Barlow GrahamPortland, Ore.", "id": "5c9e4f4f49f0eacbf105fc95", "date": "2019-03-29T16:59:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Appraising the Green New Deal", "full_text": " letters Readers discuss an ambitious 10-year plan to combat climate change introduced by Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. To the Editor: Re “What’s Green? What’s the Deal?” (editorial, Feb. 24): Your excellent editorial lays out the contrast between the promise of a well-crafted Green New Deal and the folly of doing nothing to address the central environmental challenge of our time. From President Trump and Mitch McConnell on down, Republican leaders are running out of places to hide from their abject failure to protect our people from the rising costs and mounting dangers of climate change. First, they said it was all a hoax. As the seas kept rising, the storms kept raging and the wildfires burned out of control, they threw up their hands and whined, “We’re not scientists.” Now they’ve got a new talking point: Trying to fight climate change, they say, is socialism. Socialism! Nonsense. Pooling the best of American innovation and ideas to confront growing problems and gathering threats plays to our strengths as a democracy, as we’ve proved time and again through successful initiatives from Social Security to Medicare. Some Republicans seem hellbent on putting polluter profits first, even when it means putting the rest of us at risk. It’s time to stand up and say we’ve had enough. It’s time for assertive and comprehensive action to protect our children from climate catastrophe — while we’ve still got time. Rhea SuhNew YorkThe writer is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. To the Editor: The Green New Deal should be concerning to anyone who actually cares about climate change and supports a serious and urgent solution to the problem. This resolution uses climate change as leverage to push a clear and divisive social welfare agenda. The result is an overly expensive and incomplete solution to the climate crisis.  Your editorial acknowledges these possibilities but hangs its hat on the premise that any climate change proposal is good for the cause. Let’s stick to celebrating climate change resolutions that at least make an effort at unifying the country around ambitious but workable solutions. Jon NevittScarsdale, N.Y.  To the Editor: As young people, we are often told to calm down, to be patient. We have our whole lives ahead of us to figure things out. But when young people look to the future, we see a dark cloud. We see wildfires ravaging the West. We hear of record flooding and ever more powerful storms in the South. We feel the frigid cold brought to us by changing weather patterns, and we are scared. In my classes, I study the rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide over the last 70 years, which tells us to brace ourselves for climate conditions our species has never seen. That terrifies me. What keeps me optimistic, though, is the fact that people are working to understand how climate change will affect society and the ecosystems we depend on. But that work means nothing if our government does not pay attention to these findings and act. That is why I am writing to voice my support for the Green New Deal. Climate change is a large problem to tackle, but we have to start somewhere, and the Green New Deal does just that.  Colleen B. SchmidtNew York To the Editor: Re “Dianne Feinstein Lectures Children Who Want Green New Deal, Portraying It as Untenable” (nytimes.com, Feb. 22): In her meeting with schoolchildren, Senator Dianne Feinstein demonstrated how not to approach the Green New Deal, especially with an audience of enthusiastic, idealistic youngsters whose future is at stake. While I totally agree that the Green New Deal is not viable as currently formulated, I also believe that — especially with regard to climate change — it is a goal to strive toward. But if we are to avoid a tear within the Democratic Party, and a tear between generations, we must embrace both the goal and the obstacles. What Ms. Feinstein should have said was that she will work toward that goal, recognizing both how important it is and how it will be feasible only in more manageable steps. Let us not quash the idealism that is needed to make such major changes. But let us also not forget a quote attributed to Voltaire that “the best is the enemy of the good.” Zvi J. DoronPittsburghThe writer is a retired nuclear engineer and co-author of a book about energy and climate policies. To the Editor: While the children of the Sunrise Movement, who are working to stop climate change, may not understand how the Senate functions, they do correctly understand that if the world keeps functioning under business as usual rules, their lives will be fraught with one climate catastrophe after the next. And it is not just children in states with Democratic senators who know this: Middle and high school students in Kentucky were out in force all week, even camping overnight in front of Mitch McConnell’s Senate office for the chance to make their case.  The Green New Deal may be expensive, but what would you pay to save your child’s life? Multiply that by millions. Helena BireckiSan Francisco To the Editor: American history is replete with what seemed to be, at the time, overly ambitious public policies: Kennedy’s pronouncement to put a man on the moon. The Eisenhower administration’s Interstate highways. And, of course, Franklin D. Roosevelt’s creation of Social Security. The Green New Deal should be included in the debate over new public policies and receive scrutiny from experts to ensure that the proposals are judged on their merits. Mark M. SpradleyChevy Chase, Md. To the Editor: “To Cut Emissions Faster, U.S. Can Apply These Policies” (news article, Feb. 21) shamefully fails to include animal agriculture, which is the second-leading source of greenhouse gas emissions. Not one of the seven steps to reduce emissions even mentions the problem. The article proposes a step to include electric car incentives, even though emissions from animal agriculture surpass those from the entire transportation sector — cars, trucks, trains, planes and ships combined. We cannot continue to ignore the myriad problems with the meat economy, including its huge effect on carbon emissions. John SanbonmatsuWorcester, Mass. To the Editor: Your editorial supporting the Green New Deal despite some of its unrealistic elements is right on the mark. The problem is that it might now be too late given the speed needed to overcome the extreme warming that has already occurred and the significant damage inflicted by the Trump administration on the Obama administration’s environmental policies. Historians might well focus on the 2016 campaign that resulted in the election of an unqualified climate denier as the death sentence to life on earth as we know it. They might also cast considerable blame on the mainstream media for its entertainment-dominated coverage, which resulted in what you refer to as the “hard to believe” fact that not one question about climate change was asked in the presidential debates. Mr. Trump proudly referred to climate change as a “hoax” despite overwhelming scientific evidence to the contrary. If the debate moderators had repeatedly asked him for evidence to support this claim and the media had given as much time to this issue as to Hillary Clinton’s emails, then perhaps the Obama climate policies would still be intact, some form of the Green New Deal would not appear so unrealistic, and we now might have a fighting chance to save life on earth as we know it. Harold J. SmithWhite Plains", "id": "5c7ac4fb49f0eacbf105b089", "date": "2019-03-02T18:00:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Promise and Peril of the Green New Deal", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter and Lisa Tobin, and edited by Larissa Anderson The controversial proposal to combat global warming and economic inequality is transforming the political calculus around climate change. Thursday, March 7th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: From the moment it was unveiled, it has divided Democrats and given a weapon to Republicans. The promise and the peril of the Green New Deal. It’s Thursday, March 7. Coral, where does the story of the Green New Deal begin? coral davenport Well, most recently, we saw it ignite on February 7. michael barbaro Coral Davenport covers energy and the environment for The Times. coral davenport The day that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who has, of course, skyrocketed in celebrity, essentially, to become this iconic figure on the left, introduced — it’s called a non-binding resolution. archived recording Beautiful. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) Thank you. Thank you, senator. And thank you to all of my colleagues here that have joined us today. This is so incredible. coral davenport Where she came forward at this press conference on Capitol Hill this freezing cold day. She wore a green suit. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) And I am so incredibly excited that we are going to transition this country into the future. And we are not going to be dragged behind by our past. coral davenport And laid out this set of sweeping, incredibly ambitious proposals about how to both tackle climate change and solve social injustice all in one package. archived recording (alexandria ocasio-cortez) So thank you all very, very much. archived recording Excellent. Thank you, Alexandria. Now, I’d like — michael barbaro So how do Democrats react to this proposal from their new star freshman house colleague? archived recording (kamala harris) I am supporting the Green New Deal. coral davenport So it was amazing to see a number of the presidential candidates immediately embraced it. archived recording Does the Green New Deal go too far? archived recording (bernie sanders) No. coral davenport Bernie Sanders. archived recording (bernie sanders) You cannot go too far on the issue of climate change. The future of the planet is at stake. coral davenport Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand. archived recording (kirsten gillibrand) I support all the framework that the Green New Deal supports because — coral davenport Kamala Harris, Cory Booker. archived recording (cory booker) Our planet is in peril, and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed on to the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal. coral davenport They didn’t just embrace it. They co-sponsored it. michael barbaro Wow. coral davenport Which essentially says, we’re co-authors too. archived recording (cory booker) We need to push the bounds of human potential because that is our history. coral davenport It became clear that they could see that Representative Ocasio-Cortez had become this celebrity, had become this star, had galvanized the progressive left. And there is a tremendous eagerness, particularly on the part of the presidential candidates, to just jump right into that and harness that. They want to get that energy. And this is one of the first big policy things that she did. And so she just saw all of the — not just the progressive left, but the establishment Democrats, the more moderate Democrats, jumping on and saying, hey, this is mine too. michael barbaro So how much of that has to do with all these reports that say, basically, climate change is upon us. It’s here. It’s happening. coral davenport It has a lot to do with it. I think there are three key things that have contributed to the changing politics of climate change, Michael. One, as you said, absolutely — just in the past year or two alone, there have been major new reports that say, clearly and definitively, a lot of the extreme weather events that we are seeing now are caused by climate change. Second thing is polling shows that millennials, who will soon be the largest voting demographic — that this is an issue they care about more than almost anything else. That’s a big change. The third thing, I think, that politicians are paying attention to is President Trump. President Trump has made climate change an issue because he has elevated climate policy. He has said he’s going to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement. He’s rolling back climate change regulations. He mocks climate science. So all of those present a clear way for his prospective opponents to carve out a strong position against him. michael barbaro So it appeared the moment was uniquely right for something like this to come along. coral davenport Yes. archived recording The Green New Deal, a six-page resolution on issues related to America’s role in global climate change — michael barbaro OK, so what is actually in the Green New Deal? coral davenport So the Green New Deal is very broad. But in terms of climate change, it says — archived recording The Green New Deal calls for reducing carbon emissions to zero and moving the U.S. off of fossil fuels in 10 years. coral davenport The entire world needs to get to zero emissions by 2050. archived recording It would meet 100 percent of the power demand through clean and renewable energy sources. coral davenport A 10-year plan to slash CO2 emissions in the United States to get to getting 100 percent of U.S. electricity from clean and renewable sources, such as wind and solar. archived recording Eliminating gas-powered engines, like cars, making air travel obsolete, retrofitting all existing buildings — coral davenport So those are the broad strokes of what it says about climate change. michael barbaro And all of them are wildly ambitious. coral davenport Those are extremely ambitious, just in terms of energy and climate policy. But it also goes way, way, way beyond that. It talks about how working to achieve these goals could create new green jobs. But it also talks about guaranteeing health care, guaranteed minimum wage, family medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security to every American. michael barbaro So it’s kind of a kitchen sink of liberal aspirations. It’s a little bit of everything. coral davenport It is a social progressive, liberal wish list, all bundled into this thing that’s supposed to be about climate change with no clear policy prescriptions on how actually to achieve any of these goals. And just to be clear, this sounds a little inside baseball, but it’s important to note this whole sweeping proposal is also not even a bill. michael barbaro What is it? coral davenport It is a non-binding resolution, which is about the weakest thing that you can bring up in Congress. It is a statement of what you want, of what you would like to have. So if it were to ever pass, it would do nothing. It would be Congress saying — michael barbaro This is what we wish for. coral davenport Yeah. michael barbaro Got it. So it’s a kind of manifesto, more than anything. coral davenport That’s a good way of putting it, yes. michael barbaro So given that, what is the point of this? What is the point of the Green New Deal? coral davenport At this point, it seems that it’s really just about trying to get the party to come together with one voice and say, we care about this. These are the goals that we have as a party — which, for this particular party, which has often been fractured and divided, is not necessarily a small thing. michael barbaro So what happens next? coral davenport So soon after this resolution gets introduced, things start falling apart. The first thing that happened was there was a huge logistical scrub. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s office had sent out this sheet of talking points about what was in the package. Unfortunately, some of the things that were in the talking points actually weren’t in the package, including, for example, a guaranteed right to work for those unable or unwilling to work. And within days, you had Republicans saying, this is the best thing that’s ever happened. This is rife with targets for us. archived recording The only thing green about the so-called Green New Deal is how much green it’s going to cost taxpayers if these people ever pass it into law. archived recording (speaker 1) You know, it was “yes we can,” but I’m wondering if now, it’s “yes we can become a socialist country.” And I know — archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah, that’s right. This is actually not about green energy. This is really about socialism. This is nothing more than a socialist Trojan horse. That’s why they — michael barbaro Because the impression that’s left is that Democratic presidential candidates have signed on to something that seems to support paying people who are unwilling to work, which feels like, essentially, catnip to Fox News — to anyone in the conservative Republican world. coral davenport Absolutely. And Democrats are put on the defensive saying, no, no, no, I supported the bill, but I don’t support this other thing that’s a description of the bill. That’s a terrible position for them to be in. And of course, immediately, it created a backlash, not so much to climate change, but to this particular proposal. archived recording (donald trump) But they should stay with that argument. Never change. No planes, no energy — when the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric. Let’s hurry — darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling. michael barbaro And what happens with moderate Democrats? How are they responding to this proposal? So some of them started backtracking and saying, well, we will also be unveiling our own climate proposals in the campaigns. So it will be different from this. So I think a lot of Democrats are saying, wait a minute, let’s find our own proposal that maybe is not quite this thing. And then it blew up even more when — archived recording (speaker 1) What are we doing here? archived recording (speaker 2) We’re standing at — we’re asking for the New Green Deal — archived recording (speaker 3) And we’re trying to present this letter that we’ve made to Senator Feinstein. coral davenport We saw these supporters of the Green New Deal confronted Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Democrat of California, one of the older members of the Senate, very much an establishment figure, someone who’s always been considered a reliable yes vote on environmental issues, and — archived recording (speaker 1) Did you guys all skip school? archived recording (speaker 2) Yeah. coral davenport A group of student activists confronted her in the halls of the Senate. archived recording Promote the Green New Deal. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, there are reasons why I can’t, because there’s no way to pay for it. archived recording (speaker 1) Yes, there is. archived recording (speaker 2) Yes, there is. That’s not true. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording We have tons of money going to the military. Half of our — a lot ours is going to the military. coral davenport And Senator Feinstein kind of schooled them a little bit. archived recording (dianne feinstein) And you just can’t go in and say, O.K., we’re going to take hundreds of millions from here and hundreds of millions from there. It just doesn’t work that way. archived recording But of course, our — coral davenport She was very realistic and pragmatic, but they flared right back up at her and said — archived recording But we have to come to a point where our earth is dying, literally. And it is going to be a pricey and ambitious plan that is needed to deal with the magnitude of that issue. coral davenport This does not represent what they want and what they need and what this generation needs at this time. archived recording Because that is the only way — archived recording (dianne feinstein) That resolution will not pass the Senate, and you can take that back to whoever sent you here and tell them. archived recording Why do think it won’t pass? archived recording (dianne feinstein) Because it doesn’t have a single Republican vote. archived recording But why does that stop you from voting yes? Because even if they vote — you can still vote yes, and it won’t pass, and we can draft a new plan. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, I may do that. We’ll see. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording Please vote yes. coral davenport And it was this very dramatic moment that seemed to pit generation against generation. archived recording Senator, if this doesn’t get turned around in 10 years, you’re looking at the faces of the people who are going to be living with these consequences. [INTERPOSING VOICES] The government is supposed to be for the people and by the people and all for the people. archived recording (dianne feinstein) You know what’s interesting about this group is I’ve been doing this for 30 years. I know what I’m doing. You come in here, and you say it has to be my way or the highway. I don’t respond to that. coral davenport And the moment went viral. It looked bad for Senator Feinstein. archived recording I hear what you’re saying, but we’re the people who voted you. You’re supposed to listen to us. That’s your job. archived recording (dianne feinstein) How old are you? archived recording I’m 16. I can’t vote. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you didn’t vote for me. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording It doesn’t matter. We’re going to be the ones who are impacted. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand that. [INTERPOSING VOICES] I have seven grandchildren. archived recording — regardless of whether they voted for you or not. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand it very well. archived recording Senator, the — coral davenport Even though what she was telling them was the truth — this proposal, this resolution, has no chance of passage. It’s not realistic legislation. It won’t have bipartisan support. It doesn’t make sense to put your back into something that’s never going to turn into legislation that will be enacted. But that practical message was not resonating with these passionate student protesters. michael barbaro Right, it looks like a politician a bit callously telling young, idealistic kids, no, I will not protect the Earth in a way that you want me to. coral davenport That’s how it came across. archived recording Senator, we know that no plan is going to pass right now while the Republicans control the Senate. This is a long game. We need to be doing this to unite the Democratic Party. I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but voters haven’t been particularly energized the last couple of years. We need something to fight for. Your constituents are asking you for this. And I really believe, and tens of thousands, millions — coral davenport And this is at a moment where the political strategists in the party are looking at this and saying, those are the kids whose votes we need. What are we going to do about this? We don’t want them to be turned off by us in this way. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I understand all of this. And I’m trying to do the best I can, which was to write a responsible resolution. archived recording (speaker 1) Any plan that doesn’t take bold transformative action is not going to be what we need. archived recording (speaker 2) We need your leadership. archived recording (dianne feinstein) Well, you know better than I do. So I think one day, you should run for the Senate. archived recording (speaker 1) Great, I will. [INTERPOSING VOICES] archived recording (dianne feinstein) And then you do it your way. [INTERPOSING VOICES] In the meantime — archived recording (speaker 3) archived recording (speaker 4) We have a letter for you. archived recording (dianne feinstein) I just won a big election. archived recording (speaker 5) Yeah, that was the point of coming up to — coral davenport So all this happens. Democrats are trying to figure out what are we going to do here. And Senator Mitch McConnell — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Now, Mr. President, on another matter. coral davenport — the Republican majority leader, who is a very smart, very savvy political operator — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Our nation has watched the Democratic Party take a sharp and abrupt left turn toward socialism. coral davenport — basically seems to smell blood in the water, and stepped up and said, hey, why don’t we just have a vote on this Green New Deal? And then all the Democrats can be on the record showing what they think of it. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) And nothing encapsulates this as clearly as the huge, self-inflicted national wound the Democrats are agitating for called the Green New Deal. michael barbaro So he spots the division — coral davenport Absolutely. michael barbaro — sees the messiness, and says, what a great time to force the entire party to have to say, I want this, or I don’t want this. coral davenport Absolutely. And that was the real sign that the whole thing had fallen apart and was coming unraveled, when it had truly turned into a weapon of the right. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Let’s review a few of the greatest hits in this particular proposal. Democrats have decided every building in America needs to be either overhauled or replaced altogether. Forget about coal and all the jobs it supports in my state of Kentucky and around the country. Cars, lawnmowers, commercial airliners — everything must go. Everything must go. And by the way, all this and more, Mr. President, can be ours for the low, low price of a staggering expansion of centralized government and, wait for it, upwards of a mere $93 trillion. What a great idea. [MUSIC] coral davenport And at this point now, Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, has advised his caucus not to vote for or against it — simply to vote “present” when it comes up on the floor. And keep in mind, on the other side of the House, where Democrats have the majority, Nancy Pelosi has absolutely no intention of bringing this to the floor, because she knows it’s a problematic vote. And in fact, when she was asked about it early on, she stumbled over its name. She seemed to be very dismissive of it. She does not seem to take it seriously. michael barbaro So you know you have a problem when the Republicans are eager to put a Democratic resolution on the floor of the Congress, and the Democrats are trying to avoid having their resolution put on the floor of the Congress. coral davenport That is a clear sign, when the opposing party can’t wait to take the thing and force you to vote on it — then yeah, things are not going well. michael barbaro Right. [MUSIC] archived recording (mitch mcconnell) The proposal is so lacking in details and math that it’s almost impossible for analysts to even know where to begin trying to connect it to the real world. So Mr. President, like any good socialist plan, I’m sure we’d hear a lot about soaking the rich. michael barbaro So Coral, where does this story pick back up? coral davenport So Senator Schumer, after getting a giant Green New Deal headache, on Wednesday morning goes on the Senate floor and starts talking about it. archived recording (chuck schumer) Now, Mr. President, maybe Leader McConnell doesn’t realize this, but because of the political stunt vote he’s planning on his version of Green New Deal, for the first time in a long time, the Senate is finally debating the issue of climate change. And it’s about time, if you ask me. coral davenport But he uses it as a moment to pivot and talk about several other new proposals. archived recording (chuck schumer) I understand my friends on the other side of the aisle don’t like the Green New Deal. O.K., that’s fine. What’s your plan? Maybe a lot of members think they can get away without having to answer the question. They won’t. They won’t. And that’s why we need a committee focused on this. coral davenport One is creation of a new Senate committee to deal with climate change. archived recording (chuck schumer) I will introduce a resolution to create a new committee on climate. Democrats believe this is an issue of surpassing importance. What do our Republican colleagues believe? We hope sincerely that our Republican friends will come around and view it the same way. michael barbaro And Coral, what’s going on exactly? What is Schumer doing here by suddenly talking about the Green New Deal and talking about the environment in such a formal, high-profile way? coral davenport Schumer is a politician, and so he sees that there is all of this millennial energy around the Green New Deal and around climate change. And he’s looking at the fact that people are asking questions about this when candidates go out to town halls in a way that they never have. So he wants to harness all this energy. He wants to make sure that millennials who care about climate change are still excited about Democrats and don’t think that these are fogies of yesteryear. But he wants to find a way to pivot away from the Green New Deal and come up, essentially, with a real piece of legislation that would be, probably, a lot more realistic and something that candidates could live with and that could be brought up on the Senate floor after an election. michael barbaro So not have climate change associated with universal health care — coral davenport Right. michael barbaro — or the possibility of paying people who aren’t working, but have it become part of the Democratic Party platform in a way that he feels is in line with where the party’s politics are. coral davenport Right. archived recording (chuck schumer) Because climate change will not wait for the partisanship that so often defines this chamber to ebb, it will not pause while one party’s in power. Its impacts will not discriminate between red states and blue states. It’s time to put our party affiliations aside and agree that we face a major crisis caused by humans, and we have an immediate and glaring need to address it. michael barbaro And when I think of Schumer, I think of the embodiment of the party’s middle. coral davenport Totally. michael barbaro A figure who is not a far-left figure. And so I wonder what it signals that he’s the one out there embracing this as the future of the party. coral davenport That is the thing that I thought was the craziest of all. He has never elevated this. He’s never talked about it. He’s never pushed on it, because it’s never been seen as a vote-getter. So to all of a sudden see Chuck Schumer go out on the floor and talk like he’s a climate evangelist is amazing. To be fair to Schumer, he said he’s a new grandfather, too. So he cares about his grandchild. But I do think he is also looking at these polls, and looking at this Feinstein video that went viral, and freaking out a little bit and thinking, well, we’ve got to strategize for the next elections. michael barbaro So Coral, what do we make of this? First, the Green New Deal is the hot new thing. Then it is the hot potato. But somehow it landed with Schumer standing on the Senate floor, talking about climate change in this new, powerful way for him. coral davenport Yeah, so at the end of the day, I’m very skeptical that the actual Green New Deal is going to be passed or put into effect. But this sudden skyrocketing to fame of the Green New Deal and Representative Ocasio-Cortez, and the rallying of the millennials, and even the pushback, even the fallout — it showed the Democratic Party leaders, even as middle-of-the-road political pragmatists, that there is a new energy and interest from a key demographic of voter that they care about. That was the effect of this whole Green New Deal roller coaster. And the outcome is we’re in new territory. I never thought I would write the sentence that Chuck Schumer wants to elevate the issue of climate change for campaigns, ever. michael barbaro So actually, you could argue that this resolution that seemed like a political fiasco in the beginning — it actually kind of worked. It injected this issue into the Democratic Party’s bloodstream, just as people like Ocasio-Cortez and liberals, perhaps, intended. coral davenport Even if nothing that the Green New Deal calls for actually comes to pass, it has changed the conversation. It has changed the political calculus. And it has helped bring the issue of climate change into the top tier of political campaigns, a place it’s never been. michael barbaro Coral, thank you very much. We appreciate it. coral davenport Thank you. [MUSIC] Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher From the moment it was unveiled, a sweeping plan for tackling climate change called the Green New Deal has divided Democrats and handed a political weapon to Republicans. Here’s a look at the plan’s effects in Washington. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Coral Davenport, who covers energy and the environment for The New York Times. Background reading: Senate Democrats are responding to the debate over the Green New Deal by making fighting climate change a central issue of their 2020 campaigns. The technology is feasible for a Green New Deal, though experts doubt its goals could be accomplished as quickly as advocates hope. Finding money and political will is a bigger challenge.  What, exactly, is the Green New Deal? Here are answers to nine key questions. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Coral Davenport contributed reporting. “Promise and Peril of the Green New Deal” was produced by Lynsea Garrison, Clare Toeniskoetter and Lisa Tobin, and edited by Larissa Anderson. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c80fa1049f0eacbf105bce9", "date": "2019-03-07T11:00:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "People Actually Like the Green New Deal", "full_text": " Mitch McConnell’s show vote in the Senate on Tuesday rejected the plan, but Republicans may come to regret their mockery. Mr. McElwee is one of the founders of Data for Progress. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, brought the Green New Deal to a vote in the Senate on Tuesday. He defeated consideration of the plan 57-0, winning over three Democratic senators and one independent who caucuses with the Democrats. The rest of the Democratic caucus voted “present,” in an attempt to confound Mr. McConnell’s strategy, which was to tie down the Democratic Party to an ambitious proposal from its progressive wing. In his mind, this would clearly hurt the Democrats. President Trump thinks so too. “You look at this Green New Deal — it’s the most preposterous thing,” he told Fox Business last week “Now I don’t want to knock it too much right now because I really hope they keep going forward with it, frankly, because I think it’s going to be very easy to beat.” But is the Green New Deal really that toxic? My research suggests it’s not. To begin with, the idea of a Green New Deal did not come out of nowhere. For the past several years, environmental, labor and racial justice organizations have been working toward a new framework for climate policies aimed at ensuring that these policies address the needs of front-line communities, while ensuring that workers in fossil fuel industries still have economic opportunities. In Buffalo, local groups organized to keep the closure of a fossil fuel plant from harming the local economy. In California, groups pushed through SB 535, which dedicates funding from the state’s cap-and-trade program to low-income communities disproportionately affected by climate change. In New York, the Climate and Community Protection Act, a law that mandates emissions reductions and investments in affected communities is the product of a multiyear effort. These achievements all predate the Green New Deal, but they are rooted in a similar goal: to fight for clean air, clean water, decarbonization, racial justice and good jobs at the same time. One advantage of the Green New Deal framework is that it combines immediate concerns about pollution with more abstract discussions about carbon emissions. There are immense political benefits to this approach. Consider West Virginia, where the Republican establishment ran ads criticizing the coal baron Don Blankenship for contaminating local water. Pause for a moment: Among the most conservative voters in one of the most conservative states in the country, the winning message was clean water. My think tank, Data for Progress, commissioned a series of polls on the Green New Deal. Though Data for Progress is a liberal organization that is supportive of the Green New Deal, we don’t let that cloud our polling. We want accurate results, not convenient ones. (Our surveys show lower support for “Medicare for all” than those of most other organizations, for example.) We are also involved in the process: Last September, Data for Progress released a blueprint for the Green New Deal that has informed policy development. To get accurate results, we deploy several techniques. First, in our latest polling with Civis Analytics, a data science firm founded by alumni of the Obama campaign, we informed respondents that the Green New Deal is a Democratic proposal. Voters were told that the Green New Deal would “phase out the use of fossil fuels, with the government providing clean energy jobs for people who can’t find employment in the private sector. All jobs would pay at least $15 an hour, include health care benefits and collective bargaining rights.” Many commentators have argued that the Green New Deal would become unpopular when voters were informed of the cost, so we added that the plan would “be paid for by raising taxes on incomes over $200,000 dollars a year by 15 percentage points.” In addition, we provided arguments for and against the policy: “Democrats say this would improve the economy by giving people jobs, fight climate change and reduce pollution in the air and water. Republicans say this would cost many jobs in the energy sector, hurt the economy by raising taxes, and wouldn’t make much of a difference because of carbon emissions from China.” What we found suggests very little reason for Democrats to worry about backlash: Forty-six percent of likely voters supported the policy and 34 percent opposed it. (The rest were unsure.) Obama-Trump voters narrowly favored the policy (45 percent in support and 39 percent opposed), and moderates supported it 44 percent to 27 percent. Civis Analytics modeled two-way (that is, they excluded “don’t knows”) support in states and found that vulnerable Republican senators have reason to fear Mr. McConnell’s antics: In Colorado, Cory Gardner’s state, 60 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal, and in North Carolina, Thom Tillis’s state, 56 percent did. In Maine, where Susan Collins is likely to face a tough re-election battle, 57 percent of likely voters supported the Green New Deal and in Iowa, a wind-heavy state where Democrats hope to pick up a Senate seat, 54 percent did. We also asked YouGov Blue to survey the Green New Deal. Our YouGov survey asked, “Would you support or oppose a Green New Deal to end fossil fuel use in the United States and have the government create clean energy jobs? The plan would be paid for by raising taxes, including a tax on carbon emissions.” With this framing, 43 percent of registered voters expressed support, with 38 percent opposed and the rest unsure. Not all parts of the Green New Deal are popular. In our polling with Civis, a full shift to electric cars by 2030 and the phasing out of all power plants by 2035 were both underwater. And there is no doubt that some additional parts will lose support after facing a right-wing onslaught. On the other hand, policies like green jobs, drinking water infrastructure and reforestation were wildly popular. Clean water had net support in every state in the country, and reforestation is underwater in Wyoming only. In other words, there is no part in the country where at least some aspects of the Green New Deal will not be winning issues. New polling from 350 Action and Data for Progress conducted by YouGov Blue shows that rejecting fossil fuel money is popular (49 percent support their representatives refusing campaign contributions from fossil fuel PACs, with 19 percent opposed and the rest unsure). A “keep it in the ground” approach to energy policy that would phase out fossil fuel infrastructure in favor of renewable alternatives garnered even more support (56 percent in support, 26 percent opposed). “Climate policy might befuddle Democratic leadership, but the grass roots knows what’s up,” Julian Brave Noisecat, a policy analyst for 350 Action, told me. The core challenge the Green New Deal faces is not so much on the merits of the concept or even its political feasibility; it is that many of its Democratic supporters have met an aggressive and one-sided onslaught from the right with very little by way of response. According to data shared with The Times from Navigator, a progressive polling project, 37 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, compared with 14 percent of all registered voters. Only 6 percent of non-Republican, non-Fox viewers had heard “a lot” about the Green New Deal, and 40 percent had heard nothing at all (compared with 14 percent of Republican viewers of Fox News). Across all registered voters who had heard about the Green New Deal, 32 percent reported seeing mostly negative coverage, 12 percent mostly positive, 42 percent a mix and the rest couldn’t recall. (Among Fox-viewing Republicans, it’s 68 percent, 4 percent, 24 percent and 4 percent.) We’re seeing in real time the impact of right-wing attacks. When asked simply, “Based on what you know, do you support or oppose the Green New Deal?,” 22 percent of respondents are in support, 29 percent are opposed and 49 percent are not sure. But 74 percent of Fox-viewing Republicans oppose the Green New Deal (65 percent strongly), and only 21 percent have not formed an opinion. Among people who are not Republicans and not Fox viewers, 32 percent support the Green New Deal, 8 percent oppose it and a whopping 61 percent have not formed an opinion. (Navigator polling shows that Fox News viewers are also far more likely to deny climate change.)  Though many components of the Green New Deal are popular, the Republican propaganda machine has already reshaped the narrative, and it has done so with virtually no coordinated pushback from progressives, or certainly nowhere near enough, a worrying pattern. Tuesday’s Senate vote, where Democrats were urged by their leaders to take no stance at all and vote present, however expedient, is indicative of the broader trend — a defensive crouch from Democrats in response to an onslaught from the right. The Green New Deal is the future of the Democratic Party: Among likely Democratic primary voters in our Civis polling, 71 percent supported the Green New Deal and 14 percent opposed it. Democrats should not be afraid to embrace it, and Republicans who mess with it — despite the temporary success of their aggressive tactics — will do so at their own risk.  Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is one of the founder of Data for Progress. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9b49fe49f0eacbf105f466", "date": "2019-03-27T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "McConnell to Put Green New Deal to Test Vote in First of Many Showcases", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, will force Democrats on Tuesday to take a stand on the Green New Deal and its ambitious goal of conquering climate change — after a long windup designed to drive a wedge between cautious Democratic senators and the liberal activists pushing for climate action. The resolution, which pairs quick action to throttle carbon emissions and liberal job-creation programs, will fail at the hands of the Republican majority. Many, if not most, Democrats plan to vote present, arguing that the resolution up for a vote is not anything like a fully formed piece of legislation and has not even received a hearing. Stunt votes in the past by both parties have had little political impact. But Republicans say putting the Democrats on record is significant, and it is just the beginning: They intend to keep the Green New Deal in the spotlight as long as possible to paint Democrats as socialists, out of touch with American values. “It’s the gift that keeps on giving,” said Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who once brought a snowball to the Senate floor in an effort to disprove climate change. Over the past several weeks a parade of Republicans have accused supporters of the Green New Deal of plotting to ban cars and cows, outlaw air travel, and criminalize milkshakes, all while spending trillions of dollars on a dubious effort to eliminate coal, oil and gas and guarantee jobs. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, called the proposal a “utopian manifesto.” Senator John Thune of South Dakota called it a “socialist fantasy.” Representative Rob Bishop of Utah munched on a hamburger at a news conference where he mused between bites that if the Green New Deal becomes law, “I could no longer eat this type of thing,” since cattle would be eradicated. Using a price tag calculated by the conservative American Action Forum — $93 trillion over 10 years — fact sheets circulated among Republicans offer a litany of fanciful ways to use Green New Deal funds, such as filling Lake Michigan with Coca-Cola. Democrats have accused Mr. McConnell of trying to sabotage any action on climate change and pushed Republicans to come up with a plan of their own for tackling it. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who introduced the House version of the Green New Deal, blasted Republicans on Twitter for holding a “bluff vote” and called it a “disgrace.” Earlier this month, a handful of Democratic senators — including Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader — interrupted speeches attacking the Green New Deal with questions about their Republican colleagues’ belief in climate change. “Do you believe climate change is real?” Mr. Schumer repeatedly asked. Democrats acknowledge that Republicans have been aided by the Green New Deal’s effort to link the reduction of planet-warming pollution to controversial economic goals like employment guarantees and single-payer health care. And the resolution’s botched rollout — when a staff member issued and then quickly retracted a fact sheet that joked about how long it will take to “fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes” — also gave opponents ready-made talking points. But many question the political impact of a stunt vote. Daniel Lashof, who directs the United States operations of the World Resources Institute, a global environmental think tank, accused Republicans of a “bad-faith effort to label whatever the Democrats do as socialism.” He predicted it wouldn’t resonate beyond those already antagonistic to climate change. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, an outspoken advocate for addressing climate change, dismissed Republican attacks on the Green New Deal as “a lot of made up calumnies.” Several Democrats said the caucus still is not unified on how to approach the vote on the Green New Deal, though most are expected to vote “present.” But Republicans say they are on to something. “At a political level, it’s clearly dividing the Democrats,” said J. Scott Jennings, a former campaign adviser to Mr. McConnell. “There are clearly Democrats who understand what a disaster this was to be rolled out the way it was, but they feel trapped by the base of their party that is demanding this sort of extremely out-of-the-mainstream stuff.” But climate change is not “extremely out of the mainstream.” Concern about climate change in the United States is the highest it has ever been. On the heels of a deadly wildfire season supercharged by climate change and a report by 13 federal agencies finding global warming poses a serious threat to the economy, Americans are more convinced than ever that emissions from tailpipes and smokestacks are having an impact on the planet. In many ways the Green New Deal, with its call to power the country entirely on wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy and ensuring the United States eliminates as much carbon pollution as it creates by about 2030, has injected a new enthusiasm for tackling the problem: Every Democratic presidential candidate has been pressed on his or her support of the plan, and it has helped propel climate change into a top-tier issue for 2020. But it also has created awkward moments for moderate Democrats. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, for example, was excoriated and mocked on “Saturday Night Live” after she told a group of visiting school children that she opposed the Green New Deal because it wasn’t practical and “there’s no way to pay for it.” Ms. Feinstein has a 90 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which rates lawmakers on their environmental votes and policies, and has sponsored major climate change legislation for more than 20 years. Joseph Pinion, a Republican political consultant who advocates a carbon tax, criticized Green New Deal supporters for making it a purity test of support for to address climate change. He called the resolution “possibly the largest setback in terms of getting Republicans to the table certainly in my lifetime.” “The problem with the Green New Deal is that it unifies Republicans,” Mr. Pinion said. “From your never-Trumpers to your Trump skeptics to your Trumportunists, all of these individuals are united in the idea that the policies of a Green New Deal would be disastrous for America.” But polling on the plan is strong, at least among Democrats. Data commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states found 74 percent of likely primary voters reacted favorably when presented the Green New Deal. A new Iowa poll this week reinforced that, finding 91 percent of Iowa Democrats want a candidate who supports the Green New Deal. “If anything the Green New Deal has brought energy to an issue that had gone stale,” Mr. Whitehouse said, “and as long as we can stay united and keep making progress, it will work out really well for us.”    ", "id": "5c99241349f0eacbf105ef35", "date": "2019-03-25T18:53:45+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Green New Deal for the Rest of Us", "full_text": " letter A reader says the American left is waking from its long slumber. To the Editor: Re “How the Left Embraced Elitism” (column, Feb. 12): Economists produce lots of numbers. If you look at the ones David Brooks cites, then “the productive dynamism of capitalism is truly a wonder to behold,” and the turn toward socialism suggested by the Green New Deal would only serve to undermine the free market’s success. Or you could look at these: In 2011, extreme poverty in the United States was double the levels in 1996, with child poverty reaching record levels.  In 2015, 100 million Americans, almost a third of us, were living in near poverty. In 2018 the United Nations condemned the “private wealth and public squalor” in the United States. Looking at those numbers, one could be led to believe that capitalism had accomplished exactly what Marx predicted: made the rich richer and the poor poorer. Unfortunately, our politics is incapable of understanding that capitalism does both these things: It is very good at creating wealth and very bad at spreading it around.  Worse still, now that Citizens United has identified money as the political equivalent of personhood, our biggest banks, social media and tech companies, which have also been our biggest malefactors, are virtually invulnerable to the democratic processes, or even the laws, that might restrain them. So it’s no wonder that the left is waking from its long American slumber. Now, if it can only restrain the tendency to circle the wagons and open fire, maybe we can save both the democracy and the planet. David BermanNew York", "id": "5c82a70249f0eacbf105c186", "date": "2019-03-08T17:30:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Senate Blocks Green New Deal but Expends Plenty of Carbon Talking About It", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal on Tuesday, ending a Republican effort to hitch Democratic presidential candidates to the climate plan and paint Democrats as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists. The resolution that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, put to a test vote called on the federal government to rapidly eliminate planet-warming fossil fuel emissions; accelerate the deployment of wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy sources; and create a national jobs program. But the procedural motion simply to take up the Green New Deal failed to get a single vote. Democrats, including those who were sponsors of the resolution, denounced the move as a sham intended to divide their party and provide Republicans with election-season talking points. They overwhelmingly voted “present” on the motion, and it failed, 0 to 57. Three Democratic senators — Joe Manchin III, who represents coal-heavy West Virginia; Doug Jones of Alabama; and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — joined Republicans voting no, as did Senator Angus King, an independent from Maine. But the hours of discussion that preceded the desultory procedural vote marked the most extensive examination of climate change on the Senate floor in years. The fight also took on larger dimensions as a proxy for the 2020 presidential battle, with Republicans charging that liberals intend to raise energy costs and devastate middle-class livelihoods, and Democrats blasting their counterparts for climate denial and inaction on an issue most Americans agree is serious. The day of drama included Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, exhibiting a poster of former President Ronald Reagan astride a dinosaur in an effort to treat the Green New Deal with “the seriousness it deserves.” Mr. McConnell dismissed the plan as a “science-fiction novel.” Outside the Senate, environmental activists chanted: “What do we want? A Green New Deal. When do we want it? Now!” even as they clarified that they did not actually want the Senate to pass this particular Green New Deal resolution at this precise moment. “To ordinary people, climate change is not politics. It’s life and death,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the Senate version of the Green New Deal. Mr. Markey accused Republicans of trying to “sabotage” efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and predicted that “they will pay a price at the ballot box in 2020.” Still, the maneuvering ultimately allowed both parties to declare political victory. Democrats said they intended to move forward on a number of fronts. In the House, a senior Democratic leadership aide said lawmakers would introduce sweeping legislation this week to require the Trump administration to stay in the Paris Agreement on climate change and create a plan for meeting the United States’ commitment to the global climate deal. In the Senate, Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Brian Schatz of Hawaii will announce a new special committee on climate change. Democrats are also expected to push to prioritize climate change in coming legislation on infrastructure and a deal to raise spending caps. Environmental activists said they believed the Republican strategy to ridicule, campaign on and raise money off the Green New Deal had backfired, with even Mr. McConnell acknowledging at a news conference on Tuesday that climate change was real and caused by human activity. “Mitch McConnell bet big that today’s vote would fracture the Democratic caucus,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the Sunrise Movement, a youth movement for climate action. “Today he bet wrong,” she added. Shortly after the vote, however, Republicans including Mr. McConnell and Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming were scheduled to appear at a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa at the National Mining Association, the chief lobbying group for the coal industry. Republicans meanwhile boasted that they had exposed a plan so extreme that even Democrats shied away from it. “Democrats are trying to duck, dodge and distance themselves from a vote on their own Green New Deal,” Mr. Barrasso said. “Every Democrat senator running for president supported it. Now when given the chance to actually go on the record, Democrats are desperate to avoid it.” All six presidential candidates in the Senate — Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — had been sponsors of the Green New Deal. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c9a91f049f0eacbf105f2dc", "date": "2019-03-26T20:54:46+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What Is the Green New Deal? A Climate Proposal, Explained", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. If you’ve heard a lot recently about the Green New Deal but still aren’t quite sure what it is, you are not alone. After all, it has been trumpeted by its supporters as the way to avoid planetary destruction, and vilified by opponents as a socialist plot to take away your ice cream. So it’s bound to be somewhat confusing. We’re here to help. [A Green New Deal is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.] The Green New Deal is a congressional resolution that lays out a grand plan for tackling climate change.  Introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both Democrats, the proposal calls on the federal government to wean the United States from fossil fuels and curb planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions across the economy. It also aims to guarantee new high-paying jobs in clean energy industries. The resolution is nonbinding, so even if Congress approves it, nothing in the proposal would become law. Variations of the proposal have been around for years. Think tanks, the Green Party and even the New York Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman all have had plans for tackling climate change that they labeled a Green New Deal. But after the 2018 midterm elections, a youth activist group called the Sunrise Movement popularized the name by laying out a strategy and holding a sit-in outside the office of Nancy Pelosi, the soon-to-be-speaker of the House of Representatives, to demand action on climate change. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez joined the protesters, lending her support to their proposal and setting the groundwork for what ultimately became the joint resolution. Yes. Republicans have cast the Green New Deal as a socialist takeover and say it is evidence that Democrats are far from the mainstream on energy issues. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, plans to bring the plan to the floor as early as next week. Democrats say that the vote would be a stunt because Republican Senate leaders do not want to have a sincere debate about climate change. The goal of the Green New Deal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to avoid the worst consequences of climate change while also trying to fix societal problems like economic inequality and racial injustice. [You can get updates on the Green New Deal, and all our climate coverage, in our weekly climate newsletter. Subscribe today for free.] The resolution uses as its guide two major reports issued last year by the United Nations and by federal scientists who warned that if global temperatures continue to rise, the world is headed for more intense heat waves, wildfires and droughts. The research shows that the United States economy could lose billions of dollars by the end of the century because of climate change. Currently, carbon emissions are rising, by 3.4 percent last year in the United States and by 2.7 percent globally, according to early estimates. Supporters of the Green New Deal also believe that change can’t just be a technological feat, and say it must also tackle poverty, income inequality and racial discrimination. You can read it for yourself here, but here are the essential elements: It says the entire world needs to get to net-zero emissions by 2050 — meaning as much carbon would have to be absorbed as released into the atmosphere — and the United States must take a “leading role” in achieving that.  The Green New Deal calls on the federal government to dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, create high-paying jobs, ensure that clean air, clean water and healthy food are basic human rights, and end all forms of oppression. To achieve those goals, the plan calls for the launch of a “10-year mobilization” to reduce carbon emissions in the United States. It envisions sourcing 100 percent of the country’s electricity from renewable and zero-emissions power, digitizing the nation’s power grid, upgrading every building in the country to be more energy-efficient, and overhauling the nation’s transportation system by investing in electric vehicles and high-speed rail.  To address social justice, the resolution says it is the duty of the government to provide job training and new economic development, particularly to communities that currently rely on jobs in fossil fuel industries. President Trump has claimed the Green New Deal will take away your “airplane rights.” Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, told Hugh Hewitt, the conservative radio host, that the proposal would confiscate cars and require Americans to “ride around on high-speed light rail, supposedly powered by unicorn tears.” And Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming and chairman of the Committee on Environment and Public Works, warned that ice cream, cheeseburgers and milkshakes would be a thing of the past because under the Green New Deal, “livestock will be banned.” The resolution doesn’t do any of those things. To be sure, there is some confusion about what the Green New Deal does and doesn’t say. That’s partially the fault of its sponsors, who botched the resolution’s initial rollout. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s office initially sent to reporters, but later disavowed, a fact sheet that included some controversial ideas, like guaranteeing economic security including to those “unwilling to work.” The resolution does call on the federal government to make investments in policies and projects that would eventually change the way we design buildings, travel and eat. For example: cows. To reduce methane, a powerful greenhouse gas that cows and other livestock emit, the resolution proposes “working collaboratively with farmers and ranchers in the United States to eliminate pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from the agricultural sector as much as is technologically feasible.” The resolution itself also steers clear of endorsing or rejecting specific technologies or sources of energy, something that Mr. Markey said was done purposefully to encourage broader support for the plan. The Green New Deal takes its name and inspiration from the major government makeover, known as the New Deal, launched by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to help the United States recover from the Great Depression. That series of public-works programs and financial reforms included the Civilian Conservation Corps (which put people to work in manual labor jobs like planting trees and constructing park trails) and the creation of the Public Works Administration to work on the construction of bridges, dams, schools and more.  Like the original New Deal, the Green New Deal is not a single project or piece of legislation.  That’s not clear yet. President Trump claimed it would cost $100 trillion. Supporters of the Green New Deal say climate change could be equally costly to the American economy. For now it’s impossible to pin down dollar figures on the plan. Some examples of why:  One conservative think tank has pegged the cost to the federal government of providing Medicare-to-all at $32 trillion over 10 years, but supporters claimed it would actually save taxpayers $2 trillion over 10 years.  Converting the country to 100 percent clean power? In Vermont alone, which has a goal of achieving 90 percent renewable energy by midcentury, the cost is estimated at $33 billion. Yet the state is seeing job growth in clean energy sectors and expects the transition will spur cost savings for consumers.  Modernizing the electrical grid across the United States could cost as much as $476 billion, yet reap $2 trillion in benefits, according to a 2011 study issued by the Electric Power Research Institute. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has acknowledged that the Green New Deal is going to be expensive, but contends the plan will pay for itself through economic growth. Some Republicans have called for a technology-oriented solution to climate change, but so far no critic has come out with an alternative that matches the scale or scope of the Green New Deal. There is going to be a lot more political jockeying around the Green New Deal in coming weeks and months. Republicans have already launched video ads trying to tie Democrats to the proposal, which they have described as “radical.” And Mr. McConnell’s vote is directly aimed at making life uncomfortable for Democratic presidential contenders like Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, Elizabeth Warren, Amy Klobuchar and Kamala Harris. Those senators have all co-sponsored the Green New Deal resolution but in some cases have avoided specifics. Ms. Klobuchar, for example, told CNN she saw the Green New Deal as an “aspiration” and “something that we need to move toward.” At the same time, all of the attention on the Green New Deal has put new pressure on Republican critics to come up with their own plan for cutting greenhouse gases. It is likely that the Green New Deal will remain a lightning rod throughout the 2020 presidential campaign. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c6eb6143a125f5075c0acdc", "date": "2019-02-21T14:29:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Is the Green New Deal a Leftist Fantasy?", "full_text": " transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And what should Britain do about Brexit? Thursday, February 14th, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat and this is “The Argument.” This week, does the Green New Deal symbolize the future of the Democratic Party or is it just leftist overreach? michelle cottle You can’t promise everything and expect to be taken seriously. ross douthat Then the Brexit deadline is looming. What should England do? roger cohen David, Britain is independent. I’m sorry to interject. ross douthat And finally a recommendation. michelle cottle The lovechild of Andrew Dice Clay and the little girl from “Brave” and that’s actually kind of it. [GOLDBERG LAUGHS] ross douthat The Green New Deal, the hot policy topic of the moment, is a measure drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Edward Markey that proposes a grand strategy to combat climate change while creating jobs in the U.S. <rep. alexandria ocasio-cortez What this really is is an organizing play. ross douthat It includes a 10 year commitment to convert 100 percent of the power demand in the U.S. to clean, renewable, zero-emission energy sources, to upgrade all existing buildings to meet energy efficiency requirements and to expand high-speed rail. It also includes a lot of other commitments — to universal health care, a living wage, even a job guarantee — that don’t usually get described as “green,” which has critics of the measure calling it leftist overreach, socialism disguised as climate reform. David’s sitting this conversation out; he’ll be back in the second segment. Our colleague Michelle Cottle is joining us from D.C. Hey Michelle. michelle cottle Hello Ross. ross douthat So Michelle G., I’m fascinated by the Green New Deal and what it means for the Democrats. But you’re closer to the issue than I am. What’s your impression? michelle goldberg It’s sort of astonishing that the Green New Deal in this incarnation has gone from something talked about, you know, among a small group of Democratic Socialists in New York to something that most of the Democratic candidates for president have now signed on to. The proposal is based — it’s a combination like, you know, as a lot of people have said, it’s a combination of climate mitigation and social democracy. And when I’ve talked to people who are close to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez or close to some of the organizations that have mobilized behind the Green New Deal, they make a couple of different arguments. One argument is that if you’re talking about a fundamental restructuring of the economy, which they are, then you need to give people a safety net. Right? That there’s going to be losers if you’re talking about transforming whole industries. And the way that you make that palatable for people is to make sure that there are good jobs and that they’re not going to lose their health care in the process of changing jobs. And so they will argue that this is actually, that these things actually go together. The other argument, which I think goes to the scope of their ambition, is that I think that they intuited that essentially the era of Reagan has come to an end. That the set of assumptions that have governed American politics since Ronald Reagan have now played themselves out and that we’re on the cusp of something new, and that there’s an opportunity to chart the horizon of what that would be. Right? That there is an opportunity to sort of chart the, like, ideological umbrella under which we’re all going to be operating going forward. And so you know, I think that if you see it that way then it makes sense to really go big. And to have this sort of grand mission statement for what you want the organizing values of your society to be. ross douthat Yeah, I mean I’m genuinely fascinated by the politics of this because it seems to me that this bears some resemblance to some of the more radical ideas that tend to float around in Republican Party politics during primary campaigns and so on. Those ideas are usually more like a flat tax or “9-9-9” or, you know, we’re going to abolish six cabinet agencies and so on. But what’s striking to me is how fast we’ve gone from having this conceived of by basically the socialist flank of the Democratic Party to having a blueprint that is a much more aggressive version of the sort of centrist Green New Deal ideas, that someone like our colleague Tom Friedman would champion, joined to a pitch for social democracy. And all the Democratic presidential candidates are signing onto it. You have most of the prominent people running for the Democratic nomination feeling like this is something they have to get on board with. michelle goldberg Right, although I sort of think that they are signing on to the Green New Deal in theory as opposed to signing on to all the specifics, right? I mean Michael Bloomberg, should he run, is going to champion something that he’s going to call a Green New Deal but that is probably pretty different, you know, in the actual meat of it than what they’ve proposed here. And so I’m not sure that everyone who says, “Yes, I support a Green New Deal,” necessarily supports all the components of this particular non-binding resolution. ross douthat No I think, I think that’s fair. But there still is no sense — there’s no felt sense that like this is an opportunity to distance yourself from the wackier ideas of the left or anything like that. All of the pressure at the moment is to say that even if you have doubts about the details you’re for something like this. And Michele C., I’m curious, Nancy Pelosi in a much quoted remark referred to the Green New Deal as “the green dream or whatever they call it,” which was interpreted by some people as suggesting she wanted to keep a certain distance. And I’m wondering if — is there a part of the Democratic Party right now that is really worried that they’re being dragged too far to the left? michelle cottle I don’t know that they’re worried yet that they’re being too far. There’s a lot of skepticism and I think the speaker has been pretty clear that she is aiming to keep anybody from running amok. I mean not only did she make the comment about the “green dream,” I mean she had not given the special climate change committee subpoena power or tasked them with hammering out a “Green New Dream.” She has been [COTTLE LAUGHS] talking in her best grandmother voice about how much she likes the enthusiasm behind the plan, which is about as patronizing as you can sound. That said, she knows that she’s got this new enthusiastic cohort to to contend with, and she is not looking to kind of go head-to-head so much. michelle goldberg You know, I think that there’s a disjunction here between what is necessary and what is possible that makes, in some ways, sort of both sides of the debate seem irrational, right? I mean it’s true that what Ocasio-Cortez and other people are proposing, you know, under current circumstances is not going to happen and we would need like huge political change to actually get this or anything close to it done. I think it’s also true that if you really take the scale of the problem seriously — I just finished a book by David Wallace Wells called “The Uninhabitable Earth,” which is about what climate change is going to mean for people and society in the coming decades. And I just don’t know how anybody could read that and that and kind of not feel a sense of alarm and a sense that everything possible needs to be done to keep us from going to some of the upper estimates of what global warming could look like. And so in that sense the thing you would say about the Green New Deal is maybe that it’s not ambitious enough, that, you know, there’s things that it should include that it doesn’t. But I actually think that nothing that mainstream Democrats are going to, aren’t going to roll their eyes at because they understand the limits of the political system, is going to be sufficient to the crisis. michelle cottle Yeah, one of the things that when you’re talking to Democratic skeptics — and I want to make that distinction between the climate deniers or whatever. We’re talking about more centrist Democrats and I understand the argument that if you’re going to make these huge economic changes you need to provide security, a sense of safety net. On the other hand these Democrats are like, you can’t promise everything and expect to be taken seriously as a blueprint for actual action. Now you can treat it like a vision statement. You can treat it as a wish list. You’re sitting around fantasizing with your friends about what the Democratic Party should be. But this is a Green New Deal and people are focusing on the green part but really it talks about promoting social justice. It talks about you know family leave, retirement security, health care. It’s throwing everything in there but the kitchen sink. That is not a plan. That is a vision statement that you then have to pick apart and work with. But it’s also going to get you made fun of and no one’s going to take it seriously as a legislative, kind of, roadmap. michelle goldberg Well what do you mean no one’s going to take it seriously? I mean obviously a lot of people are taking it seriously, right? I mean, and that’s why so many people are signing on to it. And I don’t think — michelle cottle Not, not politically. michelle goldberg Well I mean, the people who are rushing to co-sponsor it are taking it politically seriously, even if they don’t think that this is going to be enacted as a, you know, as a grand legislative package in the next couple of years. But it is a roadmap to the sort of laws that the new generation of Democrats would like to enact if and when they take power. michelle cottle Sure. And if you talk to some Democrats, they’re betting that the people who’ve signed on haven’t read the thing. That half of them have no idea what’s in there. So I think it hasn’t reached the point yet where anybody has drilled down. It is more a question of not necessarily virtue signalling but it is definitely a, we know that we need to stand for something and we kind of generally agree with this direction. But now we need to work to make this more, I don’t know, concrete maybe. ross douthat But I mean part of what’s fascinating too is that the political assumptions undergirding it are assumptions that the goal for Democrats is basically to, on climate, is not to find something that could someday get Republican votes. But to basically win big enough in some hopefully near-future election that you can start passing things with 60, let’s say 60 votes, or a post-filibuster landscape where you have this full tilt progressive majority. But I mean so much of climate policy in the U.S. and in most of the developed world has been built around the idea of getting right-of-center parties to buy in to carbon taxes, and to have that be the kind of technocratic solution. And the Green New Deal is not enthusiastic about carbon taxes, particularly. It sort of says, well, you know, that approach might be fine but really we want to just spend as much money as possible to sort of throw money at this problem. And that is a big strategic shift for the climate debate. michelle goldberg Right. So I think underlying that shift — and you know I think it’s a mistake to not talk about carbon taxes. It’s a mistake to tie the Green New Deal, I believe, to, you know, what they call modern monetary theory, right? This theory that you can sort of spend unlimited amounts in your own currency, absent catastrophic inflation. But when I talk to people who — like I’m thinking about this conversation I had with Sean McElwee, who’s this really significant figure in the new New Left. He founded a group called Data for Progress that poll tests a lot of these ideas. And what he said is something like, our argument is with the center left because the Republican Party is so unreasonable. You can’t talk to them. There’s sort of nothing for us to debate. They’re not going to sign on to anything. So it’s kind of a fool’s errand to try to craft something that would appeal to them. And I actually think that the legislative history of the last few years suggests that that’s the case. ross douthat Do you think, Michele C., that there are Democrats who are sort of on the center left, who care about this issue, who imagine themselves working with Republicans on it at some point in the near future? michelle cottle Yeah I think always, especially in the Senate, you’re dealing with people who think in terms of compromise or the best deal possible. I mean politics is the art of the possible on some level. So what the Green New Deal strikes me as trying to do is pull the Democratic Party in a similar way that the Tea Party pulled the Republican Party to the right. This is trying to make sure that the Democratic Party doesn’t, you know, just kind of get swept along too much toward the center or the right. And it’s reminding them that they have progressive values and they need to kind of come back on a lot of these issues toward the left. ross douthat And Michelle G., as someone who is a little older than some of the progressives working on this right now and who bears more battle scars from, you know, the long wars with conservatives, does their confidence make you nervous? michelle goldberg You know, the thing that makes me nervous is their confidence that like, people agree with us in polls, right? That people agree with all sorts of social democratic proposals when they’re phrased to certainly in polls. And, you know my experience in politics is like many years of like vastly overestimating the degree to which the American people agree with us. ross douthat But what’s — so this is, to me, I mean you said something slightly dismissive about modern monetary theory and how that’s the weakest part of the plan. And to me as an observer that, you know, that’s a very risky part of the plan but politically it’s actually in certain ways the least crazy part, right? michelle goldberg Right and they’re smart, and they’re smart, right? It’s sort of a centrist fantasy that carbon taxes are practical in a way that some of these proposals are pie — you know to see carbon taxes is as practical and to see some of these proposals as pie in the sky, I’m not sure that that actually matches the political reality. ross douthat No I don’t think it does at all. I mean I think basically the Green New Deal says in order to get people to buy into this, we’re going to tell them it’s not going to cost them that much. You know, we’re going to put it on the credit card. And we hope we basically spend our way to an energy breakthrough before the inflation spiral hits. And I don’t know if that’s any crazier, right? michelle cottle Although to be fair, what we have learned from the Republican Party in the last couple of years is that deficits don’t matter, right? You can do whatever you want and cut taxes as much as you want and spend whatever you want and nobody really cares. At least they certainly don’t these days, for the most part. michelle goldberg And they’re also — they’re also correct in surmising that the cost of climate change itself is going to be astronomical. ross douthat But it’s a cost paid out across decades and decades in a society that, at least we hope, will be steadily richer and richer than it is today. Whereas the Green New Deal is basically saying we’re going to take this tremendous economic gamble up front, right now, you know, with this sort of, you know, I won’t call it a Soviet-style 10 year plan but it’s a 10 year plan, on the assumption that that upfront cost will be less than the sort of distributed cost over time. michelle cottle So what you have to worry about here is how to balance the use of this, as one Democrat noted, as an organizing tool or a vision statement or whatever with the realpolitik situation of, at what point do you disappoint your base because you haven’t managed in 10 years to solve everything from the oppression of indigenous people to family leave to health care? And you wind up with a fairly bitter left on the just assumption that they kind of thought more was going to happen. michelle goldberg I don’t know I sort of think that the left will be more bitter if they feel like their leaders didn’t even try. michelle cottle Yeah, I do think a conversation needs to be started about what does the Democratic Party stand for. I mean this is a problem they had with the Hillary Clinton campaign. So I do think as far as like a new vision for what the Democrats stand for that that conversation needs to be started. ross douthat Are the Democrats where conservatives were in 1979? Where they’re sort of poised to have their own ideological revolution that will reshape things for a long time in this Green New Deal is part of it. Or are they where Republicans, Tea Party Republicans were in 2010, where they thought they were poised to have an ideological revolution and there were so many structural roadblocks in American politics that it just all came to grief? michelle goldberg I mean I think that they are. I mean I like to think that they are where the where the conservative movement was in 1979 and I feel like in some ways the revolution is going to happen just sort of demographically, right? I mean millennials, who are much more both diverse and left wing than any generation before them, are going to be I believe the biggest voting bloc in 2020 and then kind of more politically significant going forward and then they’re followed by a generation that’s as left wing as they are. And so that political transformation I know the Democratic Party can be overreliant on demographics but nonetheless you know the young people are going to replace us. ross douthat Michelle C., as our honored guest I want to give you the last word. To what extent is Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez really setting the agenda for Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker and so on right now? michelle cottle I think this is kind of a discussion that’s going to happen early in the primaries. It will not be in the weeds enough for it to be a real issue. But of course climate change is going to be an issue, social justice and economic fairness. So in general it will be, I just don’t think that it’s going to take center stage. ross douthat OK. I’m just curious about when it fully becomes AOC’s party because I’m, just as an observer, really excited for that moment. So this was a lot of fun. Michelle do you want to stick around through and just, — through the Brexit segment and come back for our recommendation? michelle cottle Absolutely that’d be great. Thanks. ross douthat Fantastic. All right, we’re going to take a quick break now and when we come back David is going to M.C. a debate about the future of the United Kingdom. david leonhardt Brexit. You’ve seen a lot of headlines about Britain’s plans to leave the European Union. news clips Brexit. Brexit. Brexit. Brexit. Brexit. david leonhardt But I’m gonna go out on a limb and guess you haven’t read very many of those stories. Brexit seems complicated and repetitive. And if you’re an American it can feel very far away. But I’ve become fascinated by Brexit and I want to share my fascination with you during this segment. Because Brexit is not actually that complicated. And what will happen over the next month or two will shape the future of Britain, of Europe and of the Western world. Today we’re gonna have a debate about Brexit and we’re going to ask you to make your own decision. If you were Britain what would you do? Before we get into all of that let me give you the basics. In 2016, the British public voted to leave the European Union trading zone, which is known as the E.U. jenny watson This means that the U.K. has voted to leave the European Union. [CHEERING] david leonhardt But the ballot initiative didn’t get into the details of how to leave and now neither the British Parliament nor the British people can agree on those details. There are three options for what will come next. Option one is known as “hard Brexit,” and it’s what will happen if Parliament doesn’t do anything else over the next few weeks. Britain will just leave the E.U. come March 29. Its agreements with Europe on travel, food, shipping, you name it, will be cancelled. Option two is the middle ground or “soft Brexit.” This is the one that Theresa May, the prime minister, has been pushing. Britain would leave the E.U., but it would still abide by some of Europe’s rules and still get some of the benefits. The trouble is option two is too soft for people who support “hard Brexit,” and it’s way too much for the nearly half of Britain that voted against leaving in the first place. Option three is a do over. It’s to hold another vote. This option has some obvious problems. It would essentially nullify a vote by the British people. But advocates for a revote say that people didn’t realize what Brexit really was when they voted for it back in 2016. They should have another chance to vote now that they do understand. So three options and Britain must choose only one. Today I’m joined by two excellent guests to help you decide. One is Steve Hilton. He used to be a top adviser to David Cameron, the British prime minister who set Brexit in motion. Steve now lives in the U.S. and has written a book called “Positive Populism.” He favors “hard Brexit.” The other is my colleague Roger Cohen, an Opinion columnist and former foreign editor of The Times. He recently wrote an impassioned case for a revote. Steve and Roger, welcome to “The Argument.” steve hilton Great to be with you. roger cohen Thank you. david leonhardt Steve, you should go first. Will you please lay out for us what “hard Brexit” would look like? steve hilton Yes. My view is that “hard Brexit” is really the only Brexit. And the reason I say that is the nature of the Brexit vote itself and what that was all about, which is really national independence and sovereignty. And that was at the heart of the argument for leaving the E.U. It wasn’t really about trade or economics it was about a country electing people who could make decisions about what goes on in that country and then be accountable to the people. And if you look at the E.U. and the way it works, it’s really one giant institutionalised violation of democratic norms because, as I experienced when I worked in 10 Downing Street, as you mentioned, most of the activity of the U.K. government was implementing decisions made by the E.U. And in that sense the E.U. is not just like a trade deal or some European version of Nafta. The better comparison is with the federal government here in America. And the difference is that at least the federal government is elected, at least the president is elected and Congress is elected. Whereas the E.U. force for driving policy forward, the E.U. Commission, is not elected, it’s appointed. And in that sense all the alternatives to a “hard Brexit” in the end still leave the U.K. government subject to rules developed and implemented by an unelected body based in Brussels. In that sense it’s not Brexit at all. And that’s why the only way to actually fulfil the vote, the majority vote, to leave the E.U. is what is known as a “hard Brexit.” david leonhardt Now I’ve read a lot of descriptions of what a “hard Brexit” might look like. So can you describe for me — let’s imagine it’s March 29 and we actually get the “hard Brexit,” what you think of is the only Brexit. What do you think that actually looks like and why doesn’t it scare you as much as it scares a lot of other people? steve hilton Because if the U.K. left the E.U. it would be like most other countries in the world who are not in the E.U. And those countries manage perfectly well to live and trade and prosper outside of being a member of the E.U. To take some of those specific examples, they are mentioned frequently by those who are worried about a “hard Brexit” but they’ve been knocked back every single time by the people who really know. That’s not me. Good example in terms of flights where, you hear this all the time, flights won’t be able to take off and land and air travel will be completely disrupted. They’re perfectly prepared for a situation where the U.K. is not in the E.U. One of the big problems, I think, with this argument that everything would grind to a halt if there isn’t some negotiated outcome is that it asserts far too much primacy, I think, for bureaucracy and government in terms of how society and the economy really works. In the end businesses want to sell to each other. Companies want to trade with each other. Countries want to get along with each other. And that’s how most countries in the world operate who don’t happen to be members of the E.U. So I think some of this is so overblown. I don’t want to say there’ll be no disruption. That would be ridiculous. But the idea that you can’t cope with this I think is completely overstated. david leonhardt Roger I know you’re much more worried about the prospect of a “hard Brexit.” roger cohen Yeah, sure David. With infinite respect for Steve, the notion that David Cameron’s government was some kind of stenographer for the European Union is just absurd. Britain was in the European Union. It was not however in the euro. It had control of its own monetary policy, its own currency. Britain was a sovereign nation and the slogan of the Brexiteers, as they were called, “Take back control,” take back control of what? Well not take back control of the borders not take back control of monetary policy. No, it was some nostalgic fantasy in essence to foist all that on the European Union was bolstered by a series of lies. Lies about Turkey being about to join the European Union and 80 million Turks about to descend on Britain. Lies about money that would be given to the N.H.S. in Britain. Three hundred and fifty million pounds a week going to the E.U. that could be spent on the N.H.S. As for “hard Brexit,” and I mean I hope there isn’t one, you could have, certainly, chaos in Ireland where a hard border would immediately go up. At some point I’m hoping that Labour will see the light despite Jeremy Corbyn and plenty of — democracy can think again. You know, the United States can think again a couple of years from now about President Trump if it wants to. And this should be taken not on a fantasy Brexit, which is what we had in 2016, but a reality Brexit. Now we know. Here are the terms. This is it. Do you want it? Do you want May’s deal? Do you want no deal? Or do you want to remain? And that would make sense. david leonhardt Steve let me ask you: it does feel to me like there was a story that the Leavers, the pro-Brexit crowd, told to the British people that now that the British people have actually had a chance to see the details of Brexit, it does seem like the story that they told wasn’t consistent with reality. Am I wrong about that? steve hilton No, there’s a real truth to that, to what you say there. And the reason for that is that the Leavers ended up not running the process. The process actually got taken over for various kind of catastrophic misjudgments very quickly after the vote by sort of internal warfare within the Conservative Party that we needn’t bore our listeners with. But the end result of all of that was that the people who made those positive and exciting and open arguments about how Britain could thrive and prosper and not turn its back on Europe but actually continue to engage with Europe, but also be more outward looking and engage with the wider world. All of that was lost because the people who made those arguments didn’t end up running the process. Theresa May ended up running the process and she was, let’s all remember, against leaving. She was for staying within the E.U. Just, just one quick thing I’d say, a point of agreement with Roger, I think is very important to say that he’s absolutely right in that it’s not correct to try and blame the E.U. for all the things that have gone wrong that contributed to the vote. And I’ve argued all along that the real answer to that is not leaving the E.U., but what you do with the newfound freedom once you’ve left. And the centerpiece of that has got to be policy, for example to equip people with the skills to prosper in the 21st century economy, building infrastructure, all those sorts of things. Which Roger’s correct, they have nothing to do with the E.U. I do agree about that. david leonhardt And how does Britain do that in a way, if it were to become independent, that it can’t do now? Is that like a sort of Reagan revolution for Britain? roger cohen David, Britain is independent. I’m sorry to interject. david leonhardt No that’s a fair point, Roger. roger cohen Britain is independent and Steve’s phrase, the one he just used, “newfound freedom.” I’m sorry. Newfound freedom? Do you — has anyone visiting Britain in the last 20, 30, 40 years felt he or she was in an unfree country? steve hilton No I completely agree, it’s not about the freedom of the citizens who live there. It’s about the freedom of the people, the government the people elect to actually implement policy. I mean you know most of what the government was doing was implementing E.U. directives. The freedom I’m talking about is mainly in the regulatory arena. david leonhardt O.K. so Roger, let me ask you about revote. I mean in 2016 Britain voted 52 percent to 48 percent to leave. And I think there are a lot of people, including people who were really against Brexit, who find the idea of essentially saying, “You know what actually that vote by the country doesn’t count. Let’s do it again,” to be worrisome because it feels anti-democratic. So can you walk us through why you think a revote is the right thing to do? roger cohen I don’t think there are any good outcomes and this is not a good outcome, David, but I think it’s the best of the options at this point. You yourself said to Steve and Steve I think, if I heard him correctly, agreed with you that the vote of 2016 was held on the basis of a series of lies or misleading statements. Denmark, Ireland, other E.U. members have reconsidered earlier votes and this is a decision for the ages. This is a decision for the next two three generations. I suppose it’s conceivable that Britain having come out could think again and even as you know the the vote of 2016 was thinking again about the referendum of 1975 which came out more than 60 percent in favour of staying in the E.U. So I think people say there’ll be blood in the streets. Britain will be divided. Britain is divided. This is a very fierce and contentious debate. david leonhardt Steve, is there any part of you that would actually welcome a second vote and then win it again and then remove any doubt about what the British people want? steve hilton Yes. I’m not implacably opposed to a second vote. I think that certainty is what is needed above, all clarity and certainty about what’s going to happen. That’s that’s my argument for a “hard Brexit,” at least we know what where we stand and people can plan accordingly. That also applies to a second vote. So I think it’s if you like the second best option after a “hard Brexit,” much better than continuing to debate forever and ever. I think there’s a couple of observations I’d make though. First of all, there’s not just been one vote for Brexit. There’s actually been two votes for Brexit because there’s been a general election. There was a general election in 2017 and a big majority of candidates who then got elected to Parliament ran on a promise that they would implement Brexit. Secondly, I think that those who advocate this, I think they do have an assumption that if Britain voted again it would it would reverse the vote. I don’t think that is a safe assumption at all. I think that the anger generated by the request to vote again might play a part. But also remember that if they look at opinion polls, you know — before the campaign got going the first time it looked outlandish, the idea that people would vote to leave. So I don’t you can rely on getting a different result. But the third point I’d make is that when the proponents of a second referendum say, look, now we know what it’s all about. And people didn’t have the full information. I just would recall that the campaign against leaving, the Remain campaign, its entire message was based on the worst-case scenario. All the same things that we’re hearing now attached to a no deal exit. So I think it’s not accurate to say that people were voting on the basis of different information and that now you’d have new information. I think it’d be the same arguments entirely all over again. And you might get the same result. david leonhardt Let me just make, very briefly, the version of the Theresa May case, which is look, her deal is consistent with the vote of the British people. It is not what the “hard Brexit” crowd wants. It’s certainly not what the remain crowd wants but it moves Britain a little further from Europe while honoring this vote. Isn’t that — as muddle through of an option as it is — isn’t that both the most likely and the fairest option here? Steve why don’t you go first. steve hilton I do think it’s the most likely. The problem with it is that everything you said about it is true but it only lasts for two years. It’s a transition agreement not a long term agreement. And so the arguments about all the things we’re discussing now, what is completely consuming the political debate in the U.K. — about whether to be in the single market, whether to be in the customs union, what kind of trading relationship, what do you do about the citizens living in each other’s countries — all of these things will still be there and unresolved under Theresa May’s plan. Because her plan is a withdrawal agreement. It’s a transition agreement. It is not an answer to, “What is the future relationship between Britain and the E.U.?” That’s why I think it prolongs the uncertainty and that’s why I think it’s bad. david leonhardt Roger what do you think about the May plan? roger cohen I agree with with Steve. I think it is the most likely, just. I think the prime minister is trying to run down the clock and scare people. I think it’s better than Steve’s proposal of, you know, “Let’s just get on with it.” Again, I get back to the enormity of this decision and it was foisted upon people through lies. And Britain should have the chance to think again. david leonhardt Well one of the reasons I’m so absorbed by this story is that it’s legitimately uncertain. We don’t know what’s going to happen over the next five or six weeks so I really appreciate both your coming on and I hope you’ll be willing to come back once we find out what’s actually going to happen over the next two months. steve hilton Pleasure. roger cohen Sure. Thanks David. david leonhardt Thank you Roger. Thank you Steve. Listeners we really do want to know which of these three options you would pick. So if you have an opinion, call and leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. Play Britain, tell us what you’d do and we may play you on the show. ross douthat So now Michelle, Michelle and I are back — I get a kick out of saying that — for our weekly recommendation. And this week it’s Michelle G. stands for Goldberg’s turn. Michelle, what do you have for us? michelle goldberg O.K. so this is sort of obvious because this show is aimed like a laser at my very particular demographic but I am going to recommend the new Netflix show “Russian Doll,” with the sublime Natasha Lyonne. And it sort of is like a more, like a darker, “Groundhog Day” in certain ways. Natasha Lyonne keeps dying and ending up back in this bathroom at her 36th birthday party. And she’s sort of trying to figure out what is happening to her and what she has the power to change. If I heard that description I wouldn’t necessarily want to watch it but I just — it’s so funny and delightful. I mean just partly because she is so wonderful. People who really love New York, and I count myself as one of them, I feel like will see it as one of the more authentic New York shows that’s ever been made. I mean it that just gets the texture of the city in a way that a lot of New York based shows don’t or at least the texture of the city as I’ve as I’ve lived it. michelle cottle Yeah. I have to completely agree with you. I have binge watched the whole thing. So I just went crazy with it. It has this great feel to it. If you just describe it it is like O.K., so it’s “Groundhog” without the comedy or whatever. But it’s not and it’s a great showcase for Natasha Lyonne who is fantastic. She has this kind of over-the-top shtick which at one point she describes herself as what would be the lovechild of Andrew Dice Clay and the little girl from “Brave” and that’s actually kind of it. [GOLDBERG LAUGHS] So I think that Ross should go out and completely indulge himself. michelle goldberg And, you know, I also — I also have to say it’s just, it’s so — again maybe this is like a really predictable observation, but I just love the fact that you have this show about a woman in her mid-thirties that’s sort of like an existential detective show as opposed to, you know, like, a romantic quest. I feel like you don’t really get a show about a woman that’s not really in any real sense about her love life. michelle cottle Yeah. She’s completely driving this train and she’s — if anything, she’s the unromantic person in this thing, as opposed to this guy who’s in it. And she is just brilliant with the whole thing. ross douthat The show is called “Russian Doll.” It’s on Netflix. Thank you Michelle and Michelle. That’s our show for this week. michelle goldberg Thank you. michelle cottle ross douthat This week’s show was produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn and we had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. And our theme was composed, as always, by Allison Leyton-Brown. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | RadioPublic | Stitcher | Spotify | Google Play This week on “The Argument,” is the Green New Deal a symbol of the future of the Democratic Party? Or is it just socialism disguised as climate reform? Michelle Cottle of the Times editorial board joins Ross Douthat and Michelle Goldberg to discuss. Then, David Leonhardt moderates a debate about the past, present and future of Britain’s continuing struggle to leave the European Union. Times columnist Roger Cohen favors a second Brexit referendum, while Steve Hilton — the Fox News host and former aide to David Cameron, the British prime minister who set the 2016 referendum in motion — makes the case for a “hard Brexit.” And finally, Michelle Goldberg recommends a new Netflix show so good it’s worth reliving over and over and over again. Background Reading: Ross Douthat on the perils and promise of the Green New Deal David Leonhardt on the Brexit mess and why the Green New Deal is bad policy but good politics Roger Cohen on why Britain needs a second Brexit referendum Michelle Cottle on the new Democratic majority in the House  and Trump versus Pelosi Steve Hilton, “Positive Populism: Revolutionary Ideas to Rebuild Economic Security, Family and Community in America” I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media, and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett and Ian Prasad Philbrick. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.", "id": "5c653c853a125f5075c09a9b", "date": "2019-02-14T10:00:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Green New Deal Is What Realistic Environmental Policy Looks Like", "full_text": " In the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy.  Mr. Britton-Purdy is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.” Everyone is lining up to endorse the Green New Deal — or to mock it. Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand have all endorsed the resolution sponsored by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts. Conservative critics predictably call it “a shocking document” and “a call for enviro-socialism in America,” but liberal condescension has cut deeper. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, essentially dismissed it as branding, saying, “The green dream, or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they’re for it, right?” Others have criticized it for leaving out any mention of a carbon tax, a cornerstone of mainstream climate-policy proposals, while embracing a left-populist agenda that includes universal health care, stronger labor rights and a jobs guarantee.  What do these goals have to do with stabilizing atmospheric carbon levels before climate change makes large parts of the world uninhabitable? What has taken liberal critics aback is that the Green New Deal strays so far from the traditional environmental emphasis on controlling pollution, which the carbon tax aims to do, and tries to solve the problems of economic inequality, poverty and even corporate concentration (there’s an antimonopoly clause). But this everything-and-the-carbon-sink strategy is actually a feature of the approach, not a bug, and not only for reasons of ideological branding. In the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy. Keeping the two separate isn’t a feat of intellectual discipline. It’s an anachronism. Our carbon emissions are not mainly about the price of gasoline or electricity. They’re about infrastructure. For every human being, there are over 1,000 tons of built environment: roads, office buildings, power plants, cars and trains and long-haul trucks. It is a technological exoskeleton for the species. Everything most of us do, we do through it: calling our parents, getting to work, moving for a job, taking the family on vacation, finding food for the evening or staying warm in a polar vortex. Just being human in this artificial world implies a definite carbon footprint — and for that matter, a trail of footprints in water use, soil compaction, habitat degradation and pesticide use. You cannot change the climate impact of Americans without changing the built American landscape. So the proposals to retrofit buildings, retool transportation and build a clean-energy system are simply ways of tackling the problem where it starts. They are public-works projects because large capital projects — especially ones that, like highways, involve widespread public benefit — have always required public money. They are jobs programs, unless robots do the work, so the jobs might as well be good.  The deeper point is that any economic policy is a jobs policy. The oil and gas sector provides at least 1.4 million American jobs, more if you believe industry estimates, and depends on public subsidies and infrastructure. You might say that producing the disaster of global climate change has taken a lot of economic policy and produced a lot of jobs programs. Reversing direction will take the same. Since environmental policy can happen only through economic policy, there is no avoiding decisions about what sorts of work there will be, and in which industries. It’s unsettling, but maybe a little less so when you consider that we’ve been doing it all along, usually without owning up to it. Take the Green New Deal’s proposal to work with family farmers and ranchers to reduce the carbon footprint of agriculture. It might sound like a sop to rural representatives, the locavore caucus of the Democratic Socialists of America, or both. (And that wouldn’t make it wrong.) But food is our everyday metabolism with the natural world, which is why agriculture emits 9 percent of United States carbon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (Other estimates are considerably higher.) Forty percent of our land is farmed or ranched, which is to say, the soil is basically conscripted as a food factory. The food system is already pervasively shaped by the Farm Bill, which spends nearly $15 billion per year on subsidies and $10 billion on conservation measures, deeply shaping what farmers grow and where, and tending to benefit large, industrially oriented operations. Food production can be much less carbon-intensive with changed practices in cropping, fertilizing, irrigation and waste management, many of them well suited to small farming. Moving in that direction, though, would require rattling the cage of big American agriculture. As with energy, getting lawmaking involved wouldn’t be new. It has taken years of agricultural policy to get us into this mess. Getting out of it is a question not of whether lawmaking also produces economic policy and jobs, but of what kind. The Green New Deal isn’t the only approach, of course, but its broad ambitions mark out the ground where future climate fights will happen. Because reshaping our environmental impact means reworking our economy, there will inevitably be competing visions about who deserves to benefit and what kind of economy we should build. Centrist proposals will concentrate on promoting investment in new technologies, with profits going, pharma-style, to private researchers and manufacturers. If Trumpist nationalism outgrows its climate denialism but survives to fight again, it will double down on supporting national energy industries and denying the ethical responsibilities of global interdependence by building border walls against climate refugees. To the left of the Green New Deal, there will be louder calls to nationalize fossil fuels in order to leave them in the ground. (A carbon tax would be compatible with any of these visions, depending on who paid it and how the revenues were spent.) Curiously, the idea that environmental policy could ever be separated from the larger economic order, or from fights over fairness, is recent, a product of an unusually technocratic period in American politics. Arguing for the Clean Air Act on Earth Day 1970, Senator Edmund Muskie, Democrat of Maine and the law’s lead drafter, insisted that “man’s environment” included “the shape of the communities in which he lives” and that “the only kind of society that has a chance” was “a society that will not tolerate slums for some and decent houses for others, rats for some and playgrounds for others, clean air for some and filth for others.” For Senator Muskie, environmentalism meant that no neighborhood or job should be toxic. In the three years that followed, the country adopted the most ambitious and effective environmental legislation in its history, including Mr. Muskie’s Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Endangered Species Act. Mr. Muskie’s approach remains a model of visionary environmental lawmaking. Like much new radicalism, the Green New Deal is good sense rediscovered. Jedediah Britton-Purdy (@JedediahSPurdy) is a professor of law at Columbia and is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c654a8e3a125f5075c09ac4", "date": "2019-02-14T11:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "One Cheer for the Green New Deal", "full_text": " At least our future socialist overlords aren’t thinking small. Opinion Columnist The first major policy intervention from Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the noted social-media personality and future dictator-for-life of the Americas (I believe she’s also a congresswoman of some sort), is a quite-extraordinary document: a blueprint for fighting climate change that manages to confirm every conservative critique of liberal environmental activism, every Republican suspicion of what global-warming alarm is really all about. The core conservative suspicion is that when liberals talk about the dire threat of global warming, they’re actually seizing opportunistically on the issue to justify, well, #fullsocialism — the seizure of the economy’s commanding heights in order to implement the most left-wing possible agenda. A conventional liberal, up until now, would dismiss that belief as simply paranoid, the product of Fox News feedback loops and the science-denying fever swamps. But the Green New Deal that Ocasio-Cortez and Massachusetts Senator Edward Markey are sponsoring — and that four leading Democratic contenders for the presidency have already endorsed — responds by saying: Yes, that’s absolutely correct. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] It isn’t just that the Green New Deal proposes a 10-year plan for decarbonizing the American economy that would involve the kind of “war socialism” unseen since, well, World War II (a model the authors explicitly evoke). It isn’t just that it dismisses all worries about deficits or inflation with a Venezuelan insouciance, or that it seems lukewarm about any policy or technology that might be tainted by capitalism or disliked by progressive interest groups. It’s also that the list of proposed policies for fighting climate change is filled with what even David Roberts of Vox, in the course of praising the Green New Deal, admits are “eyebrow-raising doozies,” with everything from universal health care to a job guarantee draped under the mantle of environmentalism. And that’s just in the official language of the (nonbinding, it should be noted) resolution: The Frequently Asked Questions that temporarily accompanied the New Deal’s rollout is even more striking in its green just means everything progressives want ambition. So there’s a pretty easy story to tell here about why, if the Democratic Party makes the Green New Deal vision its own, that shift will empower climate-change skeptics, weaken the hand of would-be compromisers in the G.O.P. and put the kind of climate-change package that could win at least 51 votes in the Senate even further out of reach. And also possibly help Donald Trump win re-election. But let me temper this critique by finding two positive things to say about the Green New Deal, which between them will add up to the single cheer promised in this op-ed’s title. First, in moving somewhat away from the longstanding centrist emphasis on pricing carbon — via carbon taxes or a cap-and-trade system — toward a focus on direct spending, the left might be moving away from theoretical efficiency toward political feasibility. The experience of the developed world is that carbon pricing schemes look really good in theory, but tend to either get compromised toward inefficiency in practice or else inspire populist uprisings like the gilets jaunes in France. And buried inside the sweeping command-and-control vision of the Green New Deal is the material for a more modest alternative: basically, an emphasis on research and resilience, which would spend more money on basic science, alternative-energy adaptations and mitigation in the communities most likely to be affected by storms and tides and heat. This would point to a different zone of compromise than the one often debated up till now. Instead of centrist elites compromising to raise energy taxes that often fall heavily on the working class, you could imagine left-populists and right-populists compromising on adaptationist public works, on “big, beautiful” infrastructure projects (to borrow our president’s rhetoric) that don’t pretend to solve climate change but do mitigate its consequences. If the sweeping ambition of the Green New Deal leads to positive incremental change, I think that’s the most likely way it happens. But then I also want to mildly praise the resolution’s anti-incrementalism — because there are virtues in trying to offer not just a technical blueprint but a comprehensive vision of the good society, and virtues as well in insisting that dramatic change is still possible in America, that grand projects and scientific breakthroughs are still within our reach. They might not be, since the United States is presently decadent — with a stalemated politics, an aging and risk-averse population, a balkanized culture — in ways that may limit our ability to recreate the specific projects of the past and preclude a regained conception of the common good. But the desire not to be a decadent society is a healthy one, and in that sense the Green New Deal deserves credit for looking at the American past and saying, in effect: Why not us, again? So that’s my faint praise. Enough, I hope, to earn my energy-efficient cabin an extra solar panel, bestowed by the beneficence of First Citizen AOC, in the utopia to come. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”\r\nYou can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT ", "id": "5c5f2a983a125f5075c08e33", "date": "2019-02-09T19:30:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": " The Green New Deal Rises Again", "full_text": " It was a good idea that didn’t catch on in 2007. Now we’re running out of time. Opinion Columnist Back in 2007, I wrote a column calling for a “Green New Deal,” and I later expanded on the idea in a book, “Hot, Flat and Crowded.” Barack Obama picked up the theme and made a Green New Deal part of his 2008 platform, but the idea just never took off. So I’m excited that the new Democratic Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and others have put forward their own takes on a Green New Deal, and it’s now getting some real attention. There is no agreed-upon policy road map for a Green New Deal. But as one of the leading climate bloggers, Joe Romm, recently pointed out, “Since the midterms, dozens of U.S. representatives and at least four Democratic senators have pledged support to create a Select Committee to create legislation for a Green New Deal. The goal is a ‘detailed national, industrial, economic mobilization plan’ to rapidly transition the country away from fossil fuels and toward clean energy, such as a solar, wind, and electric cars.”  The Green New Deal that Ocasio-Cortez has laid out aspires to power the U.S. economy with 100 percent renewable energy within 12 years and calls for “a job guarantee program to assure a living wage job to every person who wants one,” “basic income programs” and “universal health care,” financed, at least in part, by higher taxes on the wealthy. Critics argue that this is technically unfeasible and that combining it with democratic socialist proposals will drive off conservatives needed to pass it. Myself, I like the urgency and energy she and groups like the Sunrise Movement are bringing to this task. So for now I say: Let a hundred Green New Deal ideas bloom! Let’s see what sticks and what falls by the wayside. My own definition of a Green New Deal, which has evolved since 2007 as the technology has gotten better and the climate problem has gotten worse, remains focused on how a green revolution in America can drive innovation, spur new industries and enhance our security. Originally I also thought it could help us get our groove back after the 2007-8 recession. Success required changes in attitude, scale and innovation. Clean energy is a problem of scale. If you don’t have scale, you have a hobby. I like hobbies. I used to build model airplanes. But you can’t mitigate climate change as a hobby. The reason I called for a Green New Deal was first and foremost to convey that this undertaking required a massive, urgent response commensurate with the scale and time frame posed by accelerating disruptive climate. For too long “green” was viewed as a synonym for a project that was boutique, uneconomical, liberal, sissy and vaguely French. I wanted to recast green as geostrategic, capitalistic, economical, innovative and patriotic. My motto was, “Green is the new red, white and blue.” I did not believe in being a “nice” green. I believed in being a mean green. I believed greens should be as brassy, bold, big sky and in-your-face as any oil and gas executive. I liked the way environmental writer David Roberts put it in 2008: “Like so much of the American left, the environmental movement has become acclimated to the notion that it is operating outside the mainstream, knocking sheepishly on the door. Its rallying cry might as well be, ‘If it’s not too much trouble. …’” Forget that, Roberts argued, it is time for the green movement to think big and make big demands — something oil and gas executives do every day. To achieve scale, though, my view was that a Green New Deal had to be embraced by more than liberals. You had to reach conservatives and even climate deniers. My way of doing that was to focus on something we can all agree on: math. There are about 7.6 billion people on the planet today and, according to the United Nations, there will be 8.6 billion in 2030. A billion more people driving, flying, eating protein, building homes and drinking water in just over a decade. If they all adopt the per-capita consumption habits of today’s Americans, we’re going to burn up, heat up, eat up, plow up, choke up and smoke up the planet, whether the climate changes or not. That means that clean power, clean cars, clean manufacturing, clean water and energy efficiency have to be the next great global industries — otherwise, we humans are going to be a bad biological experiment, whether the climate changes or not. Who believes that America can remain a great country and not lead the next great global industry? Not me. A Green New Deal, in other words, is a strategy for American national security, national resilience, natural security and economic leadership in the 21st century. Surely some conservatives can support that. And to make sure that they have an incentive to, I would also guarantee that a portion of every dollar raised by a carbon tax in a Green New Deal would be invested in two new community colleges and high-speed broadband in rural areas of every state. Each state could decide where. Every American needs to feel a chance to gain from a Green New Deal. But which Green New Deal? Mine is focused on innovation. I believe there is only one thing as big as Mother Nature, and that is Father Greed — a.k.a., the market. I am a green capitalist. I think we will only get the scale we need by shaping the market. If I were drafting a Green New Deal platform today, it would put in place steadily rising mileage, manufacturing and emissions standards; stronger building codes; and carbon market prices that would say to our industries and innovators: Here are the goals, here is the level of clean power or efficiency that you have to hit every year — and may the best company win. As I wrote in my 2007 column: “To spark a Green New Deal today requires getting two things right: government regulations and prices. Look at California. By setting steadily higher standards for the energy efficiency of buildings and appliances — and creating incentives for utilities to work with consumers to use less power — California has held its per-capita electricity use constant for 30 years, while the rest of the nation has seen per-capita electricity use increase by nearly 50 percent, according to the Natural Resources Defense Council. That has saved California from building 24 giant power plants.” To keep it simple, my goals would be what energy innovator Hal Harvey has dubbed “the four zeros.” 1. Zero-net energy buildings: buildings that can produce as much energy as they consume. 2. Zero-waste manufacturing: stimulating manufacturers to design and build products that use fewer raw materials and that are easily disassembled and recycled. 3. A zero-carbon grid: If we can combine renewable power generation at a utility scale with some consumers putting up their own solar panels and windmills that are integrated with the grid, and with large-scale storage batteries, we really could, one day, electrify everything carbon-free. 4. Zero-emissions transportation: a result of combining electric vehicles and electric public transportation with a zero-carbon grid. That’s my Green New Deal circa 2019. It basically says: Forget the Space Race. We don’t need a man, or woman, on Mars. We need an Earth Race — a free-market competition to ensure that mankind can continue to thrive on Earth. A Green New Deal is the strategy for that. It can make America healthier, wealthier, more innovative, more energy secure, more respected — and weaken petro-dictators across the globe. I am eager to see what other people propose, but we don’t have another decade to waste. This may well be our last chance to build the technologies we need at the scale of the challenge we face in the time we still have to — as scientists say — manage the unavoidable aspects of climate change and avoid the unmanageable ones. As the environmentalist Dana Meadows once put it, “We have exactly enough time — starting now.” Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook ", "id": "5c353d7c3a125f5075c036fc", "date": "2019-01-09T00:16:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Green New Deal Is Better Than Our Climate Nightmare", "full_text": " The ambitious plan has had a rocky start, but it has also changed the national conversation. That alone is reason to applaud it. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. It’s hard to believe, but worth recalling, that during the presidential debates in 2016, not a single question about climate change was put to Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump. That, of course, was before a plague of hurricanes, droughts and savage forest fires in California and around the world captured the public’s attention; before Mr. Trump brought renewed focus to the very issue he had dismissed as a hoax by fecklessly rolling back nearly every positive policy thing President Barack Obama had done to address it; before a series of frightening scientific reports appeared last year, warning that the window of opportunity to ward off the worst consequences of a warming globe was quickly closing.  It was also long before anyone had seen a nonbinding congressional resolution calling for something called the Green New Deal, an ambitious plan to tackle climate change (and a lot else, too) that earlier this month burst like a shooting star upon the Washington political and legislative scene. The resolution — introduced by Ed Markey, a Democratic senator from Massachusetts, and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a newly elected Democratic representative whose district covers parts of the Bronx and Queens — calls for a “10-year national mobilization” through giant investments in infrastructure and carbon-free energy. It has since won the full or partial allegiance of a half-dozen Democratic presidential hopefuls who pray that town hall participants or debate moderators will ask them what they think about global warming. Which in turn means that, whatever becomes of the plan, it will have moved climate change — a serious issue that has had serious trouble gaining traction — to a commanding position in the national conversation. That alone is reason to applaud it.  In name and concept, the plan is not new. The term Green New Deal appeared in a column in The Times by Thomas Friedman in January 2007, in which he called for a vast public and private investment program that would throw everything under the sun (including, actually, the sun itself) — wind, solar, nuclear power, energy efficiency, advanced research, tax incentives and a price on carbon — into a massive effort to build a more climate-friendly energy system while also revitalizing the American economy.  This is essentially what the Mr. Markey and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had in mind when they rolled out their resolution on Feb. 7. Unfortunately, that rollout was anything but smooth, due largely to the bungling of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s staff, which posted on her website a set of pugnacious and poorly written talking points (later disavowed) that scared even moderate Democrats. Apart from bold if probably unattainable objectives (a total transformation to renewable energy in 10 years), the talking points dismissed as unacceptable three strategies that many experts say are necessary to any solution: nuclear power, technology that allows fossil fuel plants to capture and store their own emissions, and market-based solutions like a carbon tax or the kind of cap and trade bill that Mr. Markey worked valiantly and unsuccessfully to get Congress to approve 10 years ago. The talking points made other dubious promises, including jobs even for Americans “unwilling” to work. The immediate result of this amateurish mess was to hand Mr. Trump and other climate deniers irresistible political talking points.  The actual resolution seems more measured. It speaks only of a 10-year mobilization effort to reduce carbon emissions, without giving an explicit deadline, and it is silent as to particular strategies, leaving nuclear, carbon capture and price signals very much on the table. It does not mention costs. Some experts believe that fully remaking the energy delivery system could run into the trillions of dollars; proponents argue that spending trillions now could save much more in damages later.  The idea of decarbonizing the economy is ambitious, commendable and urgent. In early January, for instance, came three hugely dispiriting reports. The Rhodium Group, a research firm, estimated that America’s carbon dioxide emissions, after a period of decline, had risen by 3.4 percent in 2018, even as a near-record number of coal plants around the country were retired. The main culprits were economic growth and rising emissions from factories, putting America’s vow to cut greenhouse gas emissions 26 to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 further out of reach, absent bold new policies or technological breakthroughs. This bad news was followed by a study in Science finding that the oceans are warming at an alarming pace, 40 to 50 percent faster than the United Nations had estimated, putting corals and fisheries at even greater risk. If that were not enough, the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences followed with a study predicting faster melting of Antarctica’s huge ice reserves.  These are not good signs, but Mr. Markey, ever the optimist, thinks there is no better time to put forth aggressive ambitions and solutions. Obviously, nothing will happen legislatively as long as the Republicans control the Senate and Mr. Trump sits in the White House. But the stars are aligned, Mr. Markey thinks, for a robust debate about a climate strategy that his party can take to the voters in 2020. The steady drumbeat of alarming reports, plus one climate-related multibillion dollar disaster after another, has raised public consciousness, which in turn increases public pressure on Congress to do something. In an exchange that went viral on Friday, a group of children pressed Democractic Senator Dianne Feinstein over her refusal to support the plan. “We’re the ones who are going to be impacted,” one of the children lamented. Meanwhile, technological progress toward clean-energy solutions has been nothing short of remarkable, giving the lie to the old denier argument that clean energy inevitably means fewer jobs. Wind capacity has increased more than fourfold in the last decade. Solar power, while still a very small part of the total energy mix, has increased at an even faster rate. And prices for both have dropped to the point where they are increasingly competitive with fossil fuels. Ten years ago, an electric car was a curiosity; now more than a million have been sold in the United States.  For now, the nation must endure Mr. Trump’s boneheaded policies. The president has rejected the Paris agreement on climate change and rolled back Obama-era limits on carbon dioxide from coal-fired power plants and methane emissions from oil and gas facilities, while doing all he can to open more lands and waters to oil and gas exploration.  Last week, his administration made clear that it would proceed with plans to weaken fuel economy standards, despite strong objections from California and other states. In addition, The Times reported, he will soon form a special committee whose main purpose, it appears, is to challenge warnings from the Pentagon and intelligence agencies that global warming poses a threat to national security.  The immediate task facing the Democrats in 2021 — if they win control of the White House and Congress — will be to reverse Mr. Trump’s reversals. But even now, there are familiar policies that the Democrats, who control the House, can pass through key committees and the full House to force the Senate, and the nation, to debate them. These policies could go a long way toward meeting a goal of net zero emissions by midcentury, less than what the Green New Deal calls for but consistent with the recommendations of the United Nations. They could include a national electricity standard utilizing nuclear and carbon capture along with wind and solar; larger (and more consistent) tax incentives for electric vehicles; an infrastructure program that brings serious federal dollars to bear on improving efficiency in buildings and the electrical grid; major efforts to promote the sequestration of carbon in forests, farms and public lands — a critical component, which the Green New Deal recognizes, in any effort to pull carbon from the atmosphere.  Step-by-step measures like these will suit the political temperature of most House Democrats (only about 70 of whom have endorsed the Green New Deal), including the speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who gave even the toned-down resolution the back of her hand — “The green dream or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they’re for it, right?”  Whether such measures will satisfy the activists who have gathered around Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is another matter. After all, her talking points, as well as the resolution itself, speak also of providing higher education for all Americans; universal health care; affordable housing; remedies for “systemic injustices” among the poor, the elderly and people of color; and a federal job guarantee insuring “a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security.”  Which raises this question: Is the Green New Deal aimed at addressing the climate crisis? Or is addressing the climate crisis merely a cover for a wish-list of progressive policies and a not-so-subtle effort to move the Democratic Party to the left? At least some candidates — Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota among them — seem to think so.  Read literally, the resolution wants not only to achieve a carbon-neutral energy system but also to transform the economy itself. As Mr. Markey can tell you from past experience, the first goal is going to be hard enough. Tackling climate change in a big way is in itself likely to be transformative. We should get on with it.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c71aeb63a125f5075c0b339", "date": "2019-02-23T20:34:35+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Dianne Feinstein Lectures Children Who Want Green New Deal, Portraying It as Untenable", "full_text": " Senator Dianne Feinstein found herself in a standoff Friday with a group of schoolchildren who confronted her about her refusal to support the Green New Deal. In a video posted by the Sunrise Movement, which encourages young people to combat climate change, an exchange quickly became tense once Ms. Feinstein started to explain her opposition to the Green New Deal, an ambitious Democratic-led proposal that calls for a radical transformation of the United States’ energy sector. Here's the full video for those asking (it's been up on fb since this afternoon) - come for Feinstein's dismissive attitude, stay for the kids going toe-to-toe with the Senator about climate policy details. https://t.co/7lClJl2vYT “There’s no way to pay for it,” Ms. Feinstein told the group of about 15 children at her San Francisco office. “We have tons of money going to the military,” a young girl responded, only to receive a lecture about the realpolitik of passing bills in a Republican-led Senate. “That resolution will not pass the Senate, and you can take that back to whoever sent you here and tell them,” said Ms. Feinstein, Democrat of California. She added, “I’ve been in the Senate for over a quarter of a century and I know what can pass and I know what can’t pass.” [Read about the Green New Deal and the debate surrounding it.] Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, plans to bring the Green New Deal to a vote as early as next week, a move that could split Democrats. Republicans hope to put Democrats, particularly those running for president in 2020, on the record regarding a plan that the right has ridiculed as a “socialist fantasy.” The Green New Deal calls for a “10-year mobilization” to make the United States carbon neutral, meaning as much carbon would have to be absorbed as emitted into the atmosphere. It also requires shifting away from fossil fuels and supplying 100 percent of the country’s electricity from carbon-free energy sources. Twelve Democratic senators have embraced the proposal, which was introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts. Members of the Sunrise Movement have held rallies and protests this week urging Democrats who have not co-sponsored the measure to vote for it when it comes to the floor. In a statement late Friday, Ms. Feinstein called the interaction with the Sunrise Movement “a spirited discussion” and said she wanted the children to know that “they were heard loud and clear.” “I have been and remain committed to doing everything I can to enact real, meaningful climate change legislation,” she said. Varshini Prakash, executive director of the Sunrise Movement, in a statement called Ms. Feinstein “out of touch” and said the interaction shows that the Democratic Party needs “fundamental change.” The exchange between Ms. Feinstein and the children became more testy when a young woman accompanying them told the senator that “if this doesn’t get turned around in 10 years, you’re looking at the faces of the people who are going to be living with the consequences.” Ms. Feinstein chafed at the lecture, replying that she has seven grandchildren and is mindful of the threat of climate change. A decade ago, she championed ambitious legislation that would have put a cap on emissions that cause climate-warming pollution. “You know what’s interesting about this group?” she asked. “I’ve been doing this for 30 years. I know what I’m doing. You come in here and you say it has to be my way or the highway. I don’t respond to that.” Ms. Feinstein then tried to explain an alternate measure she has endorsed, which calls for a slightly later timeline in reducing carbon emissions. That solution, the young woman replied, is not good enough. “You know better than I do, so I think one day you should run for the Senate and then you do it your way,” Ms. Feinstein told the young woman. “Great,” she replied. “I will.”   ", "id": "5c70ae933a125f5075c0b1ff", "date": "2019-02-23T02:21:45+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Learning With: ‘Nine Key Questions About the Green New Deal’", "full_text": " Article of the Day Before reading the article: On Feb. 7, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts introduced a congressional resolution known as the Green New Deal — a sweeping and ambitious call for a “10-year national mobilization” to combat climate change. In “Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry,” Lisa Friedman and Glenn Thrush write: Liberal Democrats put flesh on their “Green New Deal” slogan on Thursday with a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. They continue: … as a blueprint for liberal ambition, it was breathtaking. It includes a 10-year commitment to convert “100 percent of the power demand in the United States” to “clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,” to upgrade “all existing buildings” to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete. Watch the two-minute video, “How Politicians Are Reacting to a Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions: • Who has endorsed the Green New Deal and why? • Why are some Republicans criticizing it? • Why is the resolution getting so much attention? Now, read the article, “Nine Key Questions About the Green New Deal,” and answer the following questions:  1. What kind of a congressional proposal is the Green New Deal? If it is approved by Congress, what will happen? 2. The resolution uses two major reports as its guide. What picture of climate change do those reports present? 3. What are the central goals of the Green New Deal? Give three examples of provisions intended to meet them. 4. How have critics responded to the Green New Deal? Why has there been some confusion about what exactly is in the resolution? 5. Why does the resolution include issues of social justice, like jobs, housing, human rights and oppression? How does it connect these issues to climate change? 6. The article says the Green New Deal would “change the way we design buildings, travel and eat.” In your own words, explain how. 7. From where does the Green New Deal take its name and inspiration? Why do you think the drafters of the resolution chose this historical precedent? 8. How much might the Green New Deal cost? Why is it difficult to calculate this figure? 9. The article concludes: There is going to be a lot more political jockeying around the Green New Deal in coming weeks and months … It is likely that the Green New Deal will remain a lightning rod throughout the 2020 presidential campaign. How has the Green New Deal affected debate on climate change and the 2020 presidential campaign? Finally, tell us more about what you think:  — What do you think of the Green New Deal? Is it a bold vision to address the dire situation of global warming? Or is it an unrealistic, everything-but-the-kitchen-sink approach that will not lead to real changes? Which aspects of the Green New Deal resonate the most? Which do you find least persuasive? — How important is the issue of climate change? Do you think this country is doing enough to address the problem? Is the Green New Deal a step in the right direction or an example of government overreach? In “The Green New Deal Is Everything That’s Wrong with Progressive Environmentalism,” David French writes: Nobody has to be a progressive to be concerned about the environment. Nobody has to be a progressive to respond to climate change. Any proposal that conditions response to climate change on the adoption of the full progressive platform is not only doomed to fail, but raises the question of whether the declared climate emergency is more pretext than crisis. There’s a need for a serious discussion about our climate. The Green New Deal is not serious. — Do you agree? Is the Green New Deal wrong to connect climate change to other progressive issues? Related New York Times Coverage: “The Daily” podcast: “Promise and Peril of the Green New Deal” “A Green New Deal Is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.” “Pressed by Climate Activists, Senate Democrats Plan to ‘Go on Offense’” Opinion: “The Green New Deal Is Better Than Our Climate Nightmare” “Can America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises Doubts”", "id": "5c822f6c49f0eacbf105c01c", "date": "2019-03-08T09:00:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Green New Deal Is Technologically Possible. Its Political Prospects Are Another Question.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump derided the Green New Deal as a “high school term paper that got a low mark.” Congressional Republicans mocked it as “zany.” Even Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, called the proposal a “green dream,” and some of the party’s 2020 candidates are starting to describe it as merely aspirational. Yet, despite that disdain, the goals of the far-reaching plan to tackle climate change and economic inequality are within the realm of technological possibility, several energy experts and economists said in recent interviews. Getting there will cost trillions of dollars, most agreed, and require expansive new taxes and federal programs. It certainly could not be accomplished within the 10-year time frame that supporters say is necessary, according to these experts. The Green New Deal, in other words, is an exciting idea for many liberals and an enticing political target for conservatives. But, most of all, it is an extraordinarily complicated series of trade-offs that could be realized, experts say, with extensive sacrifices that people are only starting to understand. [Here are answers to nine key questions on the Green New Deal.] Proposals for a Green New Deal — which would aim to slow climate change and catapult myriad industries into cutting-edge, low-carbon technologies — have been debated for more than a decade. But the subject was given new urgency last year by a high-profile United Nations report that said the Earth was on track to experience food shortages, fatal heat waves and mass die-offs of coral reefs by 2040, sooner than earlier projections. The report called for staggering changes to the global energy economy. If the planet follows its current trajectory, the result by century’s end would be “catastrophe,” said John P. Holdren, the former science adviser to President Barack Obama. “The world would be almost unrecognizable compared to today’s world.” “The evidence the climate is changing is becoming so overwhelming people are seeing it in their regions and in their lives,” he added. “We are really to the point where we’re seeing bodies in the street from severe flooding and severe wildfires.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The challenges in the Green New Deal for the economy, for Democratic presidential candidates running on it and for voters start with the fact that nearly 80 percent of America’s energy now comes from relatively cheap and plentiful fossil fuels. Replacing them with sources that do not emit greenhouse gasses will cost trillions of dollars; potentially increase energy costs for millions of families; and entail federal intervention in swaths of the economy, like transportation, where there is already a mixed record of government success. Republican critics gleefully noted last week that California’s Democratic governor scaled back a state-owned bullet train linking San Francisco and Los Angeles because of costs. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, has already said he will bring the plan to the floor, a move to force Democrats — particularly the six presidential candidates in the Senate who have endorsed the blueprint — to cast a vote that Republicans can use to brand them as socialists and extremists. Most 2020 hopefuls standing up for a Green New Deal have done little more than endorse it as a slogan and have rarely been pressed on its specifics. But while the scope of the Green New Deal is enormous, experts believe that the economic trade-offs — saving trillions on potential catastrophe by spending trillions to prevent it — are worth serious consideration given the scale of the threat, and that a deep policy discussion would help voters and other Americans grapple with the environmental threats. The Green New Deal, which is a congressional resolution without the force of legislation, calls for a “10-year national mobilization” to make the United States carbon-neutral across the economy. That means, as much carbon would have to be absorbed as is released into the atmosphere. Mr. Holdren, who is now a professor of environmental policy at Harvard University, said the Green New Deal’s timeline of achieving that goal around 2030 is not feasible. “As a technologist studying this problem for 50 years, I don’t think we can do it,” he said. “There’s hope we could do it by 2045 or 2050 if we get going now,” he added. Mr. Holdren said worldwide energy infrastructure — an investment of $25 to $30 trillion — turns over every three to four decades, and an aggressive transition to non-carbon energy begun today could achieve zero emissions by midcentury. That is the deadline urged by scientists from 40 countries in last year’s report from the U.N.’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The more ambitious Green New Deal was introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts. Its sweeping targets also include supplying 100 percent of the country’s electricity from renewable and zero-emissions sources within a decade; digitizing the nation’s power grid; upgrading every building to be more energy efficient; and overhauling factories and transportation, including cars, trucks and trains “as much as is technologically feasible” to remove greenhouse emissions. The plan does not include a cost estimate, though it presumably would require massive new government spending and disrupt existing jobs and industries. In addition to its climate goals, the plan includes far-ranging and politically problematic social promises, including guaranteed high-wage jobs, housing, paid vacation and health care. Ethan Zindler, head of North American research at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a clean-energy research group, said the power goal alone would be an enormous lift. He noted that 37 percent of electricity in the United States comes from zero-carbon sources, including 20 percent of which is nuclear. If no new policies are enacted and all existing nuclear plants are kept online, the United States can rise to about 44 percent clean energy by 2030. “We are quite optimistic that renewables will become the lowest-cost option” in the near future, Mr. Zindler said. But a 100 percent transformation to clean energy in a decade would necessitate not just shutting down coal, but also decommissioning natural gas plants. “That would be extremely, extremely difficult to do verging on impossible without causing some real harm to the economy,” he said. Mark Z. Jacobson, a Stanford professor of civil and environmental engineering, was more optimistic. His research influenced a California law last year requiring the state to use 100 percent carbon-free energy by 2045. Mr. Jacobson said that 80 percent of the Green New Deal’s target of net-zero greenhouse emissions across the economy could be achieved by 2030, and 100 percent between 2040 and 2050. “You don’t need any miracle technologies,” he said. He laid out a multistep plan: converting all energy to electricity and heat, and generating both solely with wind, solar and water resources; heating and cooling buildings with electric heat pumps; and powering factories with furnaces that use electricity. The only economic sector that can’t be electrified with existing technology, he said, are long-distance airplanes and ships. The Green New Deal “is technically and economically feasible,” he said. “Socially and politically, it’s a different question.” Architects of the Green New Deal envision creating millions of high-wage jobs through its massive clean-infrastructure build-out. Labor unions have been cool to the plan, though, fearing that jobs in the renewable-energy sector won’t be as high-paying or plentiful as those in oil and gas. But Kelly Sims Gallagher, director of Tufts University’s Center for International Environment and Resource Policy, said she believes the resolution’s jobs goals are reachable. There are now about 786,000 Americans working in the renewable energy industry, according to the most recent figures from International Renewable Energy Agency, compared to 3.8 million in China and 1.2 million in Europe. Ms. Gallagher said the nation seems to have ceded some of these jobs to Europe and to China. “There’s no reason why we couldn’t get those back and build a stronger clean-energy industry in the United States,’’ she said. Overhauling the transportation and buildings sectors within a decade are by far the biggest challenges the Green New Deal presents, she added. Both require major financial investments, regulations and — in the case of spurring electric-vehicle development and public transit — probably new taxes. Ultimately, many experts said, it would not be possible to achieve Green New Deal goals without building into the economy a cost for emitting greenhouse gases — such as a carbon tax, which has long been a Republican, business-oriented approach. Adele Morris, policy director of the climate and energy economics project at the Brookings Institution, said a greenhouse gas tax imposed on fewer than 3,000 taxpaying entities — corporations and municipal plants — would target 85 percent of United States emissions. And Daniel C. Esty a Yale environmental law professor and former commissioner of Connecticut’s Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, said a $5-per-ton price on carbon that increases $5 each year over 20 years would put the United States in “full transformation mode” within a decade. Republicans have mocked the Green New Deal as a “socialist wish list” untethered to economic realities. But the plan is popular with the Democratic base. A poll last week commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states — California, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and Nevada — found 74 percent of likely Democratic primary voters reacted favorably when the Green New Deal was described to them. Although six Democratic presidential candidates are co-sponsors of the Green New Deal — Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Amy Klobuchar, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren — it is unclear how familiar or supportive they are of its specifics. Most have offered general praise for its goals. Ms. Klobuchar, in an interview at a CNN town hall Monday, called the Green New Deal “so important right now for our country.” But when pressed on whether the specific goals are achievable, she said, “I think that they are aspirations,” and some compromises will be needed. Mr. Sanders, who on Tuesday announced his candidacy for 2020, intends to release a plan for reaching the Green New Deal goals, said his spokesman, Josh Miller-Lewis. In a recent interview Mr. Sanders said, “I’m prepared to be as bold as we can.” He said: “We are already spending many billions of dollars a year dealing with the impact of climate change,” a figure certain to rise. Mr. Booker, challenged by a Fox News reporter on Monday about the high costs to upgrade lighting alone, said, “This is the lie that’s going on right now,” while Ms. Warren, urging ambitious goals last week, said, “Republicans are stuck somewhere back in the 1950s.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] The few congressional Republicans who want to address climate change have been wary of the Green New Deal. Representative Francis Rooney of Florida, the Republican co-chairman of the Climate Solutions Caucus, said he would likely vote against the resolution because of its lack of details and dismissal of “free enterprise and capitalism.” “I don’t want to distract us from focusing on practical things we can actually accomplish like a carbon tax, like developing the infrastructure necessary to fight sea level rise,” he said. If the Green New Deal advances beyond a resolution to bill-writing, its policies have no chance of passing in the currently divided Congress, with a president who has mocked global warming as a hoax. Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research, a pro-fossil-fuel group, pointed out that such policies could not even pass in Democratic strongholds like Washington State, where voters in November decisively rejected a ballot proposal for a carbon tax. Mr. Pyle argued that Green New Deal boosters are not being realistic about the environmental consequences of constructing high-speed rail, manufacturing zero-emission vehicles or retrofitting buildings. “How much steel is this going to involve? How much concrete? Think about the sheer amount of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere for retrofitting alone,” he said. “It’s almost as if they are suspending reality to get to their end goal.” But environmental activists said the details and hurdles are less important than the broad ambition of the plan, which proposes a national mobilization with the scale and urgency of the original New Deal. “The science is clear: Time is not our friend here,” said Carol Browner, a White House climate adviser to Mr. Obama and chief of the Environmental Protection Administration under President Bill Clinton. “So I have to say I’m as excited about this as I have been about anything in the environmental space in a long time.” Lisa Friedman reported from Washington and Trip Gabriel from New York.    ", "id": "5c6ec5ab3a125f5075c0ad15", "date": "2019-02-21T15:35:45+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez Team Flubs a Green New Deal Summary, and Republicans Pounce", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — Days after introducing her Green New Deal — a plan to combat climate change that has won the endorsement of several Democratic presidential candidates — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez found the proposal enmeshed in confusion when her staff published a summary that included provisions not endorsed by the candidates. Over the weekend her staff backed away from the document, saying it was incomplete and had been published by accident, after Republicans pounced on the plan, citing a blog post of frequently asked questions. That post included language that called for economic security “for all who are unable or unwilling to work.” “An early draft of a FAQ that was clearly unfinished and that doesn’t represent the GND resolution got published to the website by mistake,” Saikat Chakrabarti, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff, wrote on Twitter, referring to the plan by its acronym. The plan, written by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman Democrat from New York, and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, was modeled on Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal and embraced by several presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris, Democrat of California; Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; and Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey. It was also welcomed by Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who is seen as a possible presidential contender. The sweeping resolution, which calls for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of planet-warming carbon dioxide by 2030, was also signed by more than 60 House and Senate Democrats. The plan is a nonbinding resolution and outlines goals in broad strokes rather than mapping out concrete legislation. Spokeswomen and spokesmen for Senator Harris, Senator Gillibrand, Senator Booker and Senator Sanders did not return telephone calls or emails requesting comment on the error. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has promoted the plan as a blueprint for the eventual Democratic presidential nominee. But Republicans have turned the episode with the FAQ into a campaign moment, putting out a news release saying the document revealed the “new extreme left’s startling priorities.” “They completely screwed it up,” said John Feehery, a Republican and former senior House aide. “The fact that a young freshman would make careless mistakes is not that surprising. The fact that all these presidential candidates, who are trying to distinguish themselves from the president by saying they have gravitas and credibility, would so blindly follow her is a little shocking.” “Mistakes happen” when coordinating multiple groups and collaborators, Mr. Chakrabarti wrote on Twitter. “What’s in the resolution is the GND.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook ", "id": "5c6207333a125f5075c0928d", "date": "2019-02-11T23:35:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — Liberal Democrats put flesh on their “Green New Deal” slogan on Thursday with a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. The measure, drafted by freshman Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, is intended to answer the demand, by the party’s restive base, for a grand strategy that combats climate change, creates jobs and offers an affirmative response to the challenge to core party values posed by President Trump. The resolution has more breadth than detail and is so ambitious that Republicans greeted it with derision. Its legislative prospects are bleak in the foreseeable future; Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plan to bring the resolution in its current form to the floor for a vote, according to a Democratic leadership aide with direct knowledge of her plans. But as a blueprint for liberal ambition, it was breathtaking. It includes a 10-year commitment to convert “100 percent of the power demand in the United States” to “clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,” to upgrade “all existing buildings” to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete. The initiative, introduced as nonbinding resolutions in the House and Senate, is tethered to an infrastructure program that its authors say could create millions of new “green jobs,” while guaranteeing health care, “a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security” to every American. [A “Green New Deal” may be far from reality, but it’s a different story at the state level.] “Climate change and our environmental challenges are the biggest existential threats to our way of life,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said on Thursday. “We must be as ambitious and innovative in our solutions as possible.” Mr. Markey added, “We will save all of creation by engaging in massive job creation.” The House version calls for the United States “to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions.” (PDF, 14 pages, 0.05 MB) The resolution, modeled on Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal in the 1930s, will not move in its current form, but some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation to address the climate crisis. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the chief architect of the deal, is not part of a new special select committee on climate change. She and Ms. Pelosi’s office said that she had been offered a seat on the committee but that she declined it, an assertion confirmed by an aide to Ms. Pelosi. “Frankly, I haven’t seen it,” the speaker told reporters when asked about the Green New Deal proposal during her weekly media availability at the Capitol on Thursday. “But I do know it is enthusiastic, and we welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there.” Ms. Pelosi is likely mindful of her own past mistakes. A decade ago she pushed the last major climate change measure hard, an ambitious bill to cap emissions of climate-warming pollution, then allow industries to trade emissions credits on a pollution credit market. Through force of will, she got the cap-and-trade measure through the House, only to see it die in the Senate without a vote. The next year, Democrats were swept from power, in part because of that vote and the Republicans’ framing of it as a stealth tax hike. In that Congress, she had a Democratic Senate and a Democratic president, Barack Obama. This time, she has Mr. Trump, a president who calls climate change a hoax, and a Senate in the control of Mitch McConnell, a Republican majority leader from the coal state of Kentucky. But on Thursday, she was also intent on letting her critics on the left know about her own past efforts, adding that she had made climate change the “flagship issue” of her first speakership. Proponents of the Green New Deal insisted that Democrats were unified. Both Mr. Markey and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez praised Ms. Pelosi as a “leader” on climate change, and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said she was not offended by Ms. Pelosi’s description of the Green New Deal in an interview with Politico on Wednesday as the “green dream, or whatever they call it.” “I think it is a green dream,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said. “I will not allow our caucus to be divided by whatever narrative.”  Republicans seized on the proposal with relish, portraying the entire resolution as absurd. “The socialist Democrats are off to a great start with the roll out of their ridiculous Green New Deal today!” said Bob Salera, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, the political arm of House Republicans, who called the idea “zany.” The Republican National Committee derided it as “a socialist wish list.” But Democratic candidates for the presidency did not shy away from it once details emerged. Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, quickly sent out a fund-raising appeal, declaring: “For too long, we have been governed by lawmakers who are beholden to Big Oil and Big Coal. They have refused to act on climate change. So it’s on us to speak the truth, rooted in science fact, not science fiction.” Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey; and Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, also co-sponsored the measure, which has early support from about 60 House and Senate Democrats. For all of the resolution’s audacity, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Mr. Markey also steered clear of several thorny issues, and there were even signs of concessions to moderate Democrats and Republicans interested in working on clean energy issues. For example, the resolution does not specify a date for eliminating planet-warming emissions, instead calling for the elimination of fossil fuels from major economic sectors “as much as technologically feasible.” It also avoids denouncing specific types of clean energy alternatives, specifically nuclear power, which in the past has come under fire from climate change activists despite being a zero-carbon form of energy. An early version of the resolution called for phasing out nuclear energy within a decade. The resolution also sidesteps any discussion of carbon capture and storage technology, which Green New Deal supporters had previously criticized on the grounds that it would enable the continued use of fossil fuels. Mr. Markey said the resolution is purposefully “silent on individual technologies.” Instead the resolution calls for generating all electricity through renewable sources like wind and solar within 10 years, eliminating greenhouse emissions in manufacturing and forestry “as much as is technologically feasible,” and re-engineering cars and trucks to end climate pollution. The measure also includes social justice goals not usually attached to antipollution plans, like eradicating poverty by creating high-paid jobs. But the resolution goes far beyond that, touching on themes that are animating a rising left but rarely reach the halls of Congress. It aims to “promote justice and equity by stopping current, preventing future and repairing historic oppression of indigenous peoples, communities of color, migrant communities, deindustrialized communities, depopulated rural communities, the poor, low-income workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused, people with disabilities and youth.” Mr. Markey, who co-sponsored the failed cap-and-trade measure with former Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, said he thought the public was far more ready than in 2009 to support climate change legislation. A decade ago, he said, fossil-fuel backed interest groups poured money into convincing the public that climate change was not real. “The green generation has risen up, and they are saying we want this issue solved,” Mr. Markey said. “We now have the troops, we now have the money, and we’re ready to fight.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c5c5b0e3a125f5075c08857", "date": "2019-02-07T16:21:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: ‘Green New Deal’ Plan Is Unveiled", "full_text": " Good Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Liberal Democrats introduced their “Green New Deal,” a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change. The plan presents a grand strategy to eliminate carbon emissions, create jobs and combat economic inequality, though its legislative prospects are bleak in the foreseeable future. • The political tumult in Virginia widened, as the State Senate’s top Republican faced questions about racist photographs and slurs in a college yearbook he helped oversee, transforming the nearly week-old crisis into a bipartisan reckoning over personal conduct. • A year before the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, privately threatened to use “a bullet” on him if he did not return to the kingdom and end his criticism of the Saudi government. • The Supreme Court, in a 5-4 vote, blocked a Louisiana law that its opponents say could have left the state with only one doctor authorized to provide abortions. The law, requiring abortion providers to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals, was very similar to a Texas law the court struck down in 2016. • Democrats took the first steps to obtain President Trump’s tax returns through an obscure provision in the federal code. Mr. Trump accused Democrats of “presidential harassment.” • The Senate Judiciary Committee advanced the nomination of William Barr to be Mr. Trump’s attorney general, as Republicans and Democrats were split over his views on executive authority and the Russia investigation. • Democrats want to ask the acting attorney general, Mathew G. Whitaker, about the special counsel’s Russia investigation and whether Mr. Trump fired Jeff Sessions to interfere with it. After a heated back and forth with Democrats, Mr. Whitaker agreed to testify on Friday as scheduled, having received assurances that he would not be subpoenaed. • A Muslim death row inmate in Alabama wanted his imam present at his execution, but prison officials said he could only have a Christian chaplain. The Supreme Court ruled that the execution could proceed. • Ten families are pursuing lawsuits against the right-wing conspiracy theorist Alex Jones over his role in spreading bogus claims about the Sandy Hook school shooting. The suits have advanced on several fronts in recent weeks. • Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut delivered windfalls, sometimes in the billions of dollars, to corporations by lowering their income tax rate. One of the most noticeable effects was a surge in stock buybacks. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz and Tammy Tarng in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c5d0eb63a125f5075c08a5b", "date": "2019-02-08T05:06:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "We Need More Than Solar and Wind to Power the Green New Deal", "full_text": " We’re also going to need nuclear, geothermal and fossil-fuel plants that capture and store their emissions. Dr. Jenkins and Mr. Thernstrom are co-authors of a recent study reviewing pathways to decarbonize electricity systems. Since the early days of the modern environmental movement, activists have embraced solar and wind power. A “small is beautiful” mantra guided a “soft path” to the renewables revolution. That vision inspired an open letter sent last week by hundreds of grass-roots environmental groups to Congress demanding a rapid transition to 100 percent renewable energy and explicitly rejecting virtually all forms of emissions-free power except solar and wind. The letter (notably lacking the signatures of six of the major national environmental groups) is one of several competing efforts to define a Green New Deal, an inchoate idea that has recently captured the political imagination on the center and left.  The energy and ambition of this effort is certainly worthy of applause. But environmental leaders in Congress must recognize a hard truth. The Green New Deal will be no deal if all it buys us is solar and wind power. A breakthrough on climate will depend on a willingness by Democrats and others to harness the well-intended ambition of activists while focusing on practical ways to take carbon out of our power system. Otherwise, Republicans won’t go along, and it won’t be feasible for the electric power grid. Wind and solar have come a long way since the early days. These sources now produce about 9 percent of the electricity in the United States, and their costs have declined dramatically in recent years. We can celebrate that progress without turning it into a narrow mandate. We recently reviewed 40 studies of decarbonization pathways, and the results could not have been clearer. Without exception, every study that sought to identify the most affordable clean electricity system without artificially constraining available technology options reached the same conclusion: It was much cheaper to include so-called firm low-carbon technologies such as nuclear, carbon capture, or reliable but often overlooked renewables like geothermal or hydro dams with large reservoirs, than it would be to build a clean energy system without them. Firm electricity generation resources are available on demand, for any length of time, any season of the year. That makes them a critical complement to weather-dependent wind and solar, as well as resources like batteries or strategies like demand flexibility (which permits consumers to reduce their electricity use in periods when supplies are strained) that are best suited to fast bursts of use. In other words, firm technologies complete the clean energy team. Wind and solar add value to the grid and can even be star players. But they aren’t cut out to win the decarbonization game all on their own.  Why? The variability challenge of renewables is greater than is generally appreciated. The problem is not simply the setting sun and the hourly dips in wind generation; the toughest challenge comes from the weeks and months when wind and solar production decline dramatically because of seasonal factors or prolonged weather fronts. To get through those lengthy periods, renewables-dominated systems have to be supersized, installing three to eight times more power capacity than peak demand so they can fill the void when solar and wind output is diminished. That means they also produce way too much electricity when favorable conditions return. That excess is either wasted or stored (at a cost) for later use. And, presently, storage technologies are not available to do the job cost effectively at the scale we are talking about. If such a system were to be built, it would feature a lot of poorly utilized, capital-intensive wind, solar and storage assets. Unless the cost of those technologies falls to extremely low levels, we’ll be forced to choose between clean energy and affordability. The recent riots in Paris show how that conflict might play out. Clean power systems with a mix of fuels can more easily match generation to demand and productively use all assets more often, making these systems more economical to operate. There’s no waste of large surpluses of energy or the need to develop seasonal energy storage. These advantages make the economics of a balanced low-carbon power system more attractive than those that rely solely on weather-dependent renewables. Maintaining fuel diversity also minimizes the zero-sum politics of an all-renewables grid. We don’t need to shutter the nuclear and fossil fuel industries to achieve environmental goals. To be clear, firm energy technologies face daunting challenges of their own. No one believes it is easy to build nuclear or carbon-capture power plants, which would capture carbon dioxide emissions and utilize or permanently store them. Enhanced geothermal energy (which uses techniques similar to fracking to unlock renewable energy) is still an emerging technology. But the value of these resources to a decarbonized power system would be very high, justifying efforts to accelerate their development and deployment. We are not alone in our conclusions. In his State of the State address Tuesday, Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York deliberately outlined a transition to a 100-percent clean, carbon-free energy system by 2040 — not an all-renewables system. California recently did the same. When two of the most environmentally progressive states both see the wisdom of a broad path to decarbonization, activists would be wise to heed their pragmatic conclusions. Expanding and improving the set of firm, carbon-free energy resources would make it much more affordable and feasible to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from electric power plants. That’s something Green New Dealers and Americans of all political stripes could get behind.  Jesse Jenkins is a postdoctoral environmental fellow at Harvard. Samuel Thernstrom is the founder and executive director of the Energy Innovation Reform Project, and a senior fellow at the Center for the National Interest.", "id": "5c40e4c73a125f5075c04fc2", "date": "2019-01-17T20:25:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Yes, We Need a Green New Deal. Just Not the One Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Offering.", "full_text": " There is a better way to reduce harmful emissions. Mr. Rattner served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration. Yes, of course, we need a Green New Deal to address the world’s most urgent crisis, global warming. Just, please, not the one that a flotilla of liberal politicians, including seven of the top Democratic presidential hopefuls currently in the Senate, are signing up for in droves, like children following the pied piper in the old legend. Our modern-day pied piper, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is trying to lure us into a set of policies that might help save the planet but at the cost of severely damaging the global economy. To be sure, by the time the resolution was introduced into Congress, some of its most ludicrous provisions (like the deadline of 2030 for a full transition to renewable energy and the immediate halt to any investment in fossil fuels) had been eliminated or watered down. But as important as continuing to prune the absurd or damaging provisions would be to add what is the most effective way to attack climate change: using taxes and market forces rather than government controls to reduce harmful emissions. That has been a problem for decades, at least since Washington got seriously into the business of improving the environment, back in 1970 with the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency — under President Richard Nixon! Politicians prefer that approach because using regulation hides the costs of reducing emissions. The decision, for example, to force improvements in automobile mileage by requiring each manufacturer to improve overall fleet efficiency has added thousands of dollars to the cost of cars. Higher car prices have the countervailing impact of encouraging Americans to hang onto their older, less fuel-efficient cars for a longer time, offsetting at least some of the gains from newer cars. Nor have the regulations, with their many escape hatches, kept consumers from buying even more sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks as gas prices have remained historically low. Fortunately, there is a better way to address the climate problem at far lower cost to the economy: a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. That can be imposed in any number of ways. The 18.4 cent federal gasoline tax, for example, hasn’t been increased since 1993 even as most other developed countries impose far higher levies. A particularly thoughtful proposal has come from the Climate Leadership Council, a bipartisan organization that counts more than 3,300 economists among its signatories. Elegant in its simplicity, the key provision would be the imposition of an escalating tax on carbon. At an initial rate of $43 per ton, the levy would be roughly equivalent to 38.2 cents per gallon of gasoline. To prevent polluters from fleeing overseas, the tax would be imposed on imports from countries lacking a similar provision while exports to those countries would not be taxed. While difficult to implement, that component is important to work out. The entire proceeds from the tax would be rebated to consumers. The council suggests an equal amount for each American; my view would be to exclude the wealthy (who hardly need the estimated $2,000 a year in payments) and disproportionately favor those closer to the bottom. Why are so many economists, even conservative ones, in favor of a massive new tax? Because markets do not always price in “externalities” like pollution. In addition to cutting consumption, raising the price of carbon would arguably do more to encourage development of alternative power sources than all the massive new government spending programs that advocates of the Green New Deal envision. Some technical problems would need to be addressed, such as how the higher prices would filter through inflation calculations and create unintended cost of living adjustments to wages and Social Security payments. But those are details; the key point is that a carbon tax has been judged by climate hawks like Resources for the Future to be far more effective in reaching the goals of the Paris agreement than the well-intended regulations put in place by President Barack Obama and his predecessors. That’s at least part of why the plan enjoys support from an armada of organizations not often on the same page, like Exxon Mobil and Conservation International. Historically, the politics of even small increases in the gasoline tax have been tough. A 2017 proposal in the House to increase tax by just one penny went nowhere. But recent polls suggest that perhaps sentiment is changing; a survey by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago found that 44 percent of Americans favor a carbon tax while only 29 percent oppose one. Given how late we are to the climate battle, maintaining some sensible regulation will also be necessary. But a hefty carbon tax would go a long way toward winning the war. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.\r\n       ", "id": "5c920f7f49f0eacbf105e07f", "date": "2019-03-20T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Tiny Costa Rica Has a Green New Deal, Too. It Matters for the Whole Planet.", "full_text": " CreditCredit Photographs by Celia Talbot Tobin Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. SAN JOSÉ, Costa Rica — It’s a green big deal for a tiny sliver of a country. Costa Rica, population 5 million, wants to wean itself from fossil fuels by 2050, and the chief evangelist of the idea is a 38-year-old urban planner named Claudia Dobles who also happens to be the first lady. Every country will have to aspire to something similar, scientists say, if the world is to avert the most dire consequences of global warming. And while Costa Rica’s carbon footprint is tiny compared to other countries, Ms. Dobles has a higher goal in mind: Getting rid of fossil fuels would show the world that a small country can be a leader on an awesome problem and improve the health and well-being of its citizens in the bargain.  It would, she said, combat a “sense of negativity and chaos” in the face of global warming. “We need to start providing answers.”  Costa Rica’s green bid, though fraught with challenges, has a head start. Electricity comes largely from renewable sources already — chiefly hydropower, but also wind, solar and geothermal energy. The country has doubled its forest cover in the last 30 years, after decades of deforestation, so that half of its land surface is now covered with trees. That’s a huge carbon sink and a huge draw for tourists. Also, climate change is not a divisive political issue.  Now, if its decarbonization strategy succeeds, it could provide a road map to others, especially developing countries, showing how democratically elected leaders can grow their economies without relying on polluting sources of energy. But if it doesn’t work, in a country so small and politically stable, it would have equally profound consequences.  “If we can’t pull it off by 2050, it’s likely no other country can pull it off,” said Francisco Alpízar, an economist at the Tropical Agriculture Research and Higher Education Center in Turrialba, Costa Rica and a climate adviser to the government. “That would be really bad.” For Ms. Dobles, the top priority is fixing transportation. It is the largest single source of Costa Rica’s greenhouse gas emissions. The number of cars and motorcycles on the roads is growing fast, according to a survey by a nongovernmental group called State of the Nation. The average car in the country is 17 years old. Congestion is a huge problem; morning traffic in the San José metropolitan area moves at an average of less than 10 miles per hour. Afternoons are worse. The National Decarbonization Plan, as it’s called, envisions electric passenger and freight trains in service by 2022, which is when Ms. Dobles’s husband, President Carlos Alvarado, finishes his term. Under the plan, nearly a third of all buses would be electric by 2035, dozens of charging stations would be built, and nearly all cars and buses on the roads would be electric by 2050. Unlike many other countries, Costa Rica does not rely on coal to produce its electricity. Revamping transportation is expensive and so it will require tackling things that have little direct connection to climate change — fixing the country’s fiscal health, for one, to be able to secure big foreign loans to fund such an ambitious project, and lowering unemployment, which is a pressing political demand. It also means addressing the aspirations of its upwardly mobile people. Stephanie Abarca is one of them. Purse and lunch bag in hand, on her way to work one morning, the 32-year-old Ms. Abarca was 100 percent behind the first lady’s green targets. Of course, Ms. Abarca said, Costa Rica should be a green “pioneer.” But she faces more immediate problems. For her, getting to work means waking up at 4 a.m. to shower and dress, ride the bus for an hour, walk a few blocks (or run, if the bus is late), and board a slow-chugging, horn-blaring diesel train for another 20 minutes to finally get to her office. Most weeks, after a nearly two-hour commute each way, she is too exhausted for the 6 p.m. yoga class that her employer offers to relieve stress. By Fridays, she is running on fumes.  Her goal: She is saving up to buy a secondhand car, a subcompact Suzuki Swift. It would improve her commute, she said, knowing full well that it would also inject more carbon into the atmosphere. “Everybody wants to have a car,” said Ms. Abarca, a manager at a furniture company. “That doesn’t help.” After transportation, agriculture and garbage account for the largest share of Costa Rica’s emissions. To curb emissions from landfills, the plan proposes new waste treatment plants, as well as recycling and composting systems, which are now virtually nonexistent. The country’s pineapple and banana growers would have to reduce emissions. So, too, its cattle ranchers, which could mean using less land. Costa Ricans, including the ones in the first family, are fond of meat. The president laughed when I asked him about going vegan. “I don’t think that will happen,” he said. How to pay for Costa Rica’s green ambitions remains a question mark. A rough, initial estimate puts the price tag at $6.5 billion in the next 11 years alone, which the government has said will be shared between the private and public sectors. Still, tax collection is poor, powerful industries are tax-exempt, and government debts have soared, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. A widening deficit recently prompted ratings agencies to downgrade Costa Rica’s creditworthiness. And a fiscal overhaul that Mr. Alvarado pushed through last year prompted street demonstrations and a crippling monthslong strike by teachers.  Mr. Alvarado, 39, who wrote a historical novel before he became president last year, is fond of invoking the past. Leaders before him did improbable things too, he pointed out, like abolishing the army in the 1940s. He has called climate change “the greatest task of our generation.” He said he saw no point in waiting for bigger, more powerful countries to act first. By 2050, he pointed out, the couple’s son will be 37, the same age he was when he ran for the presidency. On the last Sunday of February, on a stage erected behind the Museum of Costa Rican Art, his administration sought to rally the country to the decarbonization plan. Guests filed in. The dress code was tropical casual: florals, linens, Panama hats. Sounds of the rain forest echoed through the space. Performers dressed as animals moved through the crowd. A jaguar slunk along the floor, occasionally rubbing against the pant legs of a politician, a macaw on stilts fussed with a well-dressed woman’s hair, a frog photo-bombed bystanders.  “Green is the New Black,” read the slogan on the first lady’s T-shirt. “This is a great transformation we have ahead of us,” the president declared. “We have to conquer it with data, with intelligence, but more than anything, we have to fill ourselves with courage to go forward.”  Not everyone stands to gain. An industry group that represents bus owners said that if they were to electrify their fleets, as the government insists, they would need money from the government, or higher fares from their passengers, which would very likely create political difficulties for the government. Car importers want the government to crack down on used cars, which tend to pollute more. The biggest importer, Javier Quirós, said to pay for such an ambitious plan, the country might want to reconsider its ban on oil drilling. And Guillermo Constenla, the head of the largest party in Congress, balked at the idea of raising the gas tax. There’s another complication. Fewer new cars would mean less money for the government at a time when Costa Rica can least afford it. Taxes associated with fossil fuels, including new cars, account for more than 20 percent of public revenues, according to the Environment and Energy Ministry. The government is dangling the possibility of a comprehensive tax overhaul, a politically risky venture. Ms. Dobles has suggested higher taxes on gas-guzzling vehicles, also risky.  Ms. Dobles is certain that habits will change. As a child, she said, she spent an hour to and from school by bus; it’s where she got to know Mr. Alvarado. Most socializing was done at home, occasionally at a shopping mall. Her parents drove her around. “I never got to go outside, basically,” she recalled, except when she went to visit relatives in the countryside. Then she visited Paris, on a college scholarship. It was mind-blowing. She didn’t miss not having a car. It’s a feeling she wants Costa Ricans to have at home. For that, she said, the vast, sprawling San José metropolitan area needs to be fundamentally redrawn. More apartments, more shops, more sidewalks, more public spaces for people to socialize. And fast, modern, safe public transportation. Ms. Dobles wants her compatriots to see that this is not about emissions alone. “It’s also about quality of life,” she said.  Of course, if everyone in the world were to decarbonize, that would be a big problem for Costa Rica. Most of the 3 million tourists who came last year flew here, leaving a gigantic carbon footprint in the sky. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. An earlier version of this article misidentified the site of a reception to introduce the government’s decarbonization plan. It was the Museum of Costa Rican Art, not the National Museum. Somini Sengupta covers international climate issues and is the author of \"The End of Karma: Hope and Fury Among India's Young.\"  @SominiSengupta • Facebook ", "id": "5c87591949f0eacbf105c8c3", "date": "2019-03-12T06:59:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Legalized Marijuana. A ‘Green New Deal.’ Cuomo’s 2019 Vision Tacks Left.", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] ALBANY — With a Democrat-controlled State Legislature and the bold promises of an election year behind him, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Tuesday laid out a sweeping agenda for the coming year, including legalizing marijuana, establishing congestion pricing in New York City and embracing a popular environmental platform known as the Green New Deal. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, won a third term in November by running on an aggressively progressive platform that promised to make New York a leader among liberal states. And his new agenda, which he unveiled in his ninth State of the State address, seemed crafted with other Democrat-dominated states in mind. If the state succeeds in legalizing marijuana within 100 days, it could grab attention and revenue from New Jersey, which is looking to do the same. And if the state enacts the governor’s plan to ban single-use plastic shopping bags, it would be the second in the nation, after California. “We know the future,” Mr. Cuomo said. “Let New York lead.” [Where are New York and Gov. Cuomo headed? For some key takeaways from his speech, read here.] Much of the governor’s plan would require legislative approval. But unlike in years past, when some of his efforts were thwarted by a Republican-led State Senate, the governor is now operating with the first Democratic monopoly in the State Legislature in his eight years in office. Indeed, even before Mr. Cuomo delivered his State of the State speech, the Legislature had in its first three days passed a suite of voting and election reforms; banned conversion therapy for gay minors; and expanded legal protections for transgender people. The governor also used the speech to unveil his budget proposal for the new fiscal year, which begins on April 1. The governor anticipated the state spending $175 billion next year. The largest expenditure would, as always, go to education spending, which would increase by $1 billion over the current year to $27.7 billion. Mr. Cuomo also proposed legislation requiring school districts to concentrate state aid in their highest-need schools, using a method modeled on the state’s formulas for funding poorer districts. One of the most closely watched parts of the governor’s speech was his plan to legalize recreational marijuana, a proposal that has taken on increased urgency as popular support has crescendoed. Mr. Cuomo offered scant details, but he indicated that New York’s law would likely be more restrictive than in other states that have legalized recreational marijuana. The drug would be available to adults 21 and older and subject to local veto, with counties and large cities able to opt out. Mr. Cuomo estimated that legalization would bring in $300 million each year in tax revenue by the time it was fully implemented. But that would not be until 2023, according to Mr. Cuomo’s budget director, Robert Mujica. The initial rollout would bring in much less revenue, projections show: Budget documents included no revenue from marijuana regulation and taxation for the 2020 fiscal year, and $83 million for 2021. Mr. Cuomo also provided little detail about how the state would spend that revenue — a topic that has inspired intense speculation, with proposals ranging from subway repairs to criminal justice rehabilitation to tax relief. In budget documents, the governor’s description of possible uses was just as far-flung, including beneficiaries such as small business development, substance abuse treatment and “any other identified purpose recommended” by a new cannabis office. Mr. Cuomo also said that the state would seal certain cannabis-related criminal records, though he did not specify which ones. Several legislators and advocacy groups have demanded a social justice component to any legalization bill. The embrace of marijuana marks a fast evolution in Mr. Cuomo’s thinking: Less than two years ago, he called it a “gateway drug.” But the political landscape has been upended since then, both in Albany — where a group of young insurgents helped take back the State Senate for Democrats — and the nation, where the Trump administration continues to act as both foil and punching bag for Mr. Cuomo. Some of those insurgents were already pushing back on Mr. Cuomo’s speech before it had ended — a sign that an all-Democratic Legislature may not guarantee easy passage for Mr. Cuomo’s priorities. Senator Julia Salazar, a Democrat from Brooklyn, called Mr. Cuomo’s opt-out provision on legalization of marijuana “unacceptable” to the communities that had been harmed by its criminalization. Other lawmakers accused Mr. Cuomo of being stingy with school funding. Mr. Cuomo also drew a chilly response from Mayor Bill de Blasio, who attended the speech, for his proposal to make New York City pay for half of needed repairs to its unraveling subway system. “Everyone knows, on the M.T.A., that I think we need a long-term funding situation. It’s not something that can be paid for out of the city budget,” Mr. de Blasio said, adding, “I was not applauding. I just disagree with the concept.” The 50-50 funding solution was just part of Mr. Cuomo’s proposal for funding the system; the other was his revived proposal for a congestion pricing plan, which would charge drivers who enter areas of Manhattan during the busiest times of day. The plan would bring in $15 billion over 10 years, Mr. Cuomo said — a figure that would amount to just a fraction of the amount the Metropolitan Transportation Authority has said it needs for its next capital plan. Congestion pricing won support last year from labor groups, business interests and activists, but foundered under objections from legislators from outside Manhattan. There is no guarantee that the plan would win more support this year, as many of the legislators last year who opposed it have reaffirmed their doubts.  Mr. Cuomo also promised to establish clear authority for the subway system’s oversight, which is currently divided between the state and the city. The governor has repeatedly denied responsibility for the system’s deterioration, even though the state largely controls the M.T.A. board. “Everybody can point fingers, but nobody has responsibility and nobody has authority,” he said. “That is the fundamental problem with the M.T.A.” He did not say, however, who exactly would take on that clarified authority. The state also plans to push to legalize sports betting at its four casinos, hoping to pump life into several underperforming betting halls that were legalized in 2014. Sports betting would not be allowed at the state’s so-called racinos, such as Aqueduct or Yonkers. On top of the legislative wrangling that will ensue in the coming months, the governor’s budget proposal comes amid worries about the national economy and some troubling signs in New York. The governor’s budget office noted that personal income tax collections had been weaker than expected in recent weeks, which it said could be attributed to volatility in the stock market. Andrew Rein, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan budget watchdog, said Mr. Cuomo’s plan did not seem to provide enough rainy day funds for any looming recession. “He has some real spending initiatives here, and what are we doing about reserves for the future?” Mr. Rein said. “Because we still are in good times.” The governor, who has cut taxes on the middle class and corporations in years before, outlined a series of “revenue actions” to fill the state’s coffers, including several that had previously languished in the Republican-led Senate. They included a longstanding idea to require so-called “marketplace providers” like Amazon to collect sales tax, and another to close the so-called carried interest loophole, which allows hedge fund managers and real estate investors to pay a lower tax rate on their investment income. Mr. Cuomo described the year as a fleeting political opportunity to deliver on long-awaited promises. “We have a moment in time to change the state,” he said. Follow Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley on Twitter: @vwang3 and @jessemckinley    ", "id": "5c3e57d23a125f5075c0494a", "date": "2019-01-15T21:59:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A ‘Green New Deal’ Is Far From Reality, but Climate Action Is Picking Up in the States", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — Even though talk of a “Green New Deal” is getting louder in Congress, the odds of major federal climate legislation passing in the next two years remain extremely low. It’s a different story at the state level, however: The midterm elections in the fall brought in a new wave of governors who are now setting climate goals for their states and laying out more ambitious plans to cut emissions and expand low-carbon energy. In the past month, newly elected Democratic governors in Michigan, Illinois and New Mexico have joined the United States Climate Alliance, a group of 19 states and Puerto Rico that has vowed to uphold the Paris climate agreement despite President Trump’s disavowal of the accord. With the new additions, the alliance now covers one-third of America’s greenhouse gas emissions and nearly half its population.  “It essentially says to the world that Michigan is going to live up to the promise that we, as a country, made at one point” to address climate change, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan said when she announced that her state would join the alliance and establish a new office of climate and energy. States can only do so much to tackle global warming by themselves. But they can serve as laboratories of sorts, testing which climate policies work well and which ones are ineffective or too costly. And, by advancing technologies like wind, solar or electric vehicles, they could pave the way for more ambitious federal action — should that moment ever arrive. Here are some of the biggest steps states have taken recently on climate policy. For years, the go-to climate move for states has been to require utilities to use more renewable electricity, a task made easier by the rapid decline in costs for wind and solar power. Governors are now poised to accelerate those policies. In Maine, the new governor, Janet Mills, a Democrat, has vowed to restore incentives for rooftop solar and to boost wind power locally — moves that had been stymied by her Republican predecessor. In New Mexico, another Democrat, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, is backing a bill requiring electric utilities to get 50 percent of their power from renewable sources by 2030, keeping pace with neighbors like Colorado and Nevada. (Nevada voters in November approved their own requirement for 50 percent renewables by 2030.) There’s been a major shift in how America makes electricity over the past two decades. Each state has its own story. The most striking development, though, has been the array of governors who are now floating plans for their states to get 100 percent of their electricity from zero-carbon sources. Legislators in California and Hawaii have already set deadlines for utilities to meet this target by 2045. In recent months, the governors of Colorado, Illinois, New Jersey and New York have pledged to pursue similar goals. These states are all venturing into uncharted territory, and there’s no guarantee they will succeed. As states rely on ever-larger amounts of wind and solar power, it becomes more challenging to juggle these intermittent sources. Getting all the way to 100 percent zero-carbon electricity, experts say, could require extensive new nationwide transmission lines, novel energy storage techniques or help from untested technologies like advanced nuclear power. For now, states are experimenting with varied approaches. Hawaii, for example, wants to meet its goal entirely through renewable energy. In New Jersey, by contrast, Gov. Philip D. Murphy signed legislation to keep his state’s nuclear plants open as part of a broader low-carbon portfolio. And New York is soliciting bids for large new offshore wind farms. Electricity is responsible for about one-third of America’s carbon dioxide emissions. To go further, states will also have to clean up the cars and trucks on their roads, which account for another third. In December, nine Eastern states and the District of Columbia announced they would work together to put a price on emissions from transportation fuels and invest the revenue in lower-carbon solutions, potentially including mass transit, electric buses or new charging stations to make it easier for people to own plug-in vehicles. Some of the states involved, like Pennsylvania and Maryland, are in danger of missing their self-imposed climate goals unless they can halt the stubborn rise in driving emissions. While the finer details of the policy will be hashed out this year, the states are modeling their efforts after the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cap-and-trade system in the Northeast that auctions a steadily dwindling supply of carbon pollution permits to power plants and uses the revenue to invest in efficiency and clean energy programs. “Transportation is going to be even more complex than electricity — there are so many moving parts,” said Vicki Arroyo, the executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center, which has been working closely with the states on the initiative. But, she said, referring to Maryland, Massachusetts and Vermont, “It’s notable that we have three Republican governors here who are committed to stepping up on this.” In November, voters in Washington State rejected a ballot initiative to impose a statewide tax on carbon emissions — a sign that putting a price on carbon, a favorite solution of many economists, remains a tough sell politically. But the idea is far from dead: In neighboring Oregon, the Legislature is now considering a statewide cap-and-trade system that would put a price on emissions from a wide range of polluters, including manufacturers, paper mills, refineries and utilities. (Oregon already gets the vast majority of its electricity from hydropower dams, so it has less room to expand renewable power than other states.) The bill faces a tough battle, but if it were to pass, Oregon could link up with California and Quebec to create a carbon trading system. Elsewhere, New Jersey and Virginia are planning to join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. Although Virginia’s governor, Ralph Northam, a Democrat, has faced intense pressure to resign over a racist yearbook photo, state regulators are still laying the groundwork to participate in the cap-and-trade program. In September, a report by America’s Pledge, a coalition of states, cities and businesses that have promised to stick with the Paris Agreement, found that current state and city climate policies would, if followed through, get the United States about two-thirds of the way toward its commitment under the accord. Nathan Hultman, an author of that report and director of the Center for Global Sustainability at the University of Maryland, said the flurry of new state policies could help push the United States closer to its Paris goal, a reduction of emissions at least 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, though it would take time to gauge their full impact. “It’s still the case that federal leadership is going to be absolutely essential, and right now that’s absent,” he said. “But we also knew that federal action alone wasn’t going to be enough, because so many important decisions have to be made at the state and city level. And one thing we’ve seen in the past two years is that states are starting to think seriously about what more they can actually do to deliver real and meaningful emissions reductions.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Brad Plumer is a reporter covering climate change, energy policy and other environmental issues for The Times's climate team.  @bradplumer ", "id": "5c5d53883a125f5075c08ae8", "date": "2019-02-08T10:00:14+0000"}]