[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Legalizing Marijuana, With a Focus on Social Justice, Unites 2020 Democrats", "full_text": " People in Colorado still remember John Hickenlooper’s crack after the state legalized marijuana, a move he opposed: “Don’t break out the Cheetos or Goldfish too quickly.” But Mr. Hickenlooper, the governor at the time of the 2012 initiative allowing recreational use of cannabis, eventually changed his mind. He acknowledged that fears of increased use by children did not materialize, and he boasted of the tax revenues for social programs that regulated sales delivered. Entering the Democratic presidential race this month, Mr. Hickenlooper joined a field already jammed with pro-legalization candidates, a reflection of swiftly changing public opinion since Colorado became one of the first of 10 states with legal recreational marijuana. The issue today is a pillar of progressive politics, but not because of graying hippies who like their Rocky Mountain High. Rather, for many Democrats, legalization has become a litmus test for candidates’ commitment to equal treatment for all races in policing and criminal justice as well as fighting economic inequality. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “A Democrat who is not on board with legalization or addressing it in terms of repairing harms brought by prohibition for decades is going to have a tough time convincing any voter they’re serious about racial justice,” said Vincent M. Southerland, executive director of the Center on Race, Inequality and the Law at New York University Law School. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey last month introduced the pointedly named Marijuana Justice Act, which would remove the drug from the federal list of controlled substances and expunge past convictions. Supporters note that African-Americans are almost four times more likely to be arrested for marijuana possession than whites, even though rates of use are similar. “It’s not enough to legalize marijuana at the federal level — we should also help those who have suffered due to its prohibition,” Mr. Booker said in a tweet.  Other 2020 candidates in the Senate quickly signed on as sponsors, including Kirsten Gillibrand, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Beto O’Rourke, who often hedges when asked about contentious policy issues, has endorsed the federal legalization of marijuana unequivocally. Asked about it Thursday — at his first event as a presidential candidate, in Keokuk, Iowa — Mr. O’Rourke framed his position as a matter of practicality and racial justice, given that people of color are imprisoned at disproportionate rates for drug offenses. “I say this as the father of a middle school student, where middle schools are one of the fastest growing markets for marijuana sales today,” he told a coffeehouse crowd. “In the black market, they do not ID — they do not care — as long as they can make that sale.” The 2020 Democratic hopeful who may be most vulnerable on marijuana policy is former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who in the 1980s and 90s was a leader in the “war on drugs.’’ He championed laws that set tough mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenses, including possessing large amounts of marijuana. This led to an era of mass incarceration, with a lasting economic and social toll for minorities. “In 1994 Biden had a fairly mainstream position, but in 2020 that position is so far from the mainstream of Democratic politics that it is almost offensive,” said John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who focuses on state and federal marijuana policy. He called Mr. Biden’s history on criminal justice issues “his biggest liability in the 2020 primary.” Mr. Biden has apologized for parts of his record, calling a law from the 1980s requiring harsher penalties for crack cocaine than powder cocaine — the former was more popular with African-Americans and the latter with whites — “a big mistake.” Spokesmen for Mr. Biden, who has told aides he is 95 percent committed to getting into the presidential race, did not respond to requests for comment. Two Democratic senators opposed to legalizing marijuana at the federal level — Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who entered the race last month, and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who opted out of running this month — represent battleground states in the Midwest, whose politics are less progressive than the coastal states that led the way to legalizing cannabis for adults. Ms. Klobuchar, who hopes to appeal to moderate voters, has said she supports the right of states to decide individually about legalization, rather than the approach of Mr. Booker, Mr. O’Rourke and others who want to shift policy at the national level. In 2015, Ohio voters overwhelmingly defeated a referendum to legalize recreational marijuana. Mr. Brown told an Ohio TV station last year that the jury was out on the experience of states that had legalized the drug, including whether it was a “gateway” to harder drugs. Midwestern states have been devastated by opioid overdoses. Marijuana has been shown to lead in some cases to increased alcohol abuse, but the majority of users do not progress to harder drugs, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse. A study last year in the journal JAMA Internal Medicine found that after states legalized marijuana for medical use, prescriptions for opioids dropped nearly 15 percent. Polling, which has found a rapid increase in support for legal recreational marijuana since 2000, including majorities in both parties, shows little regional variation. Support in the Midwest and South is about equal to the coasts. Legalization is most popular with young adults under 35, with nearly four out of five in favor — catnip to Democrats seeking to rally millennial voters, whose disapproval of Mr. Trump is higher than any other age group. Experts said opposition is concentrated among social conservatives. The racial demographics of support have also shifted from a time when whites favored adult recreational use and minority groups opposed it, said Jonathan P. Caulkins, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University, who has tracked marijuana policy for more than a decade. “Over the last 15 to 20 years, African-Americans have switched to favor legalization,” he said. Ms. Harris, a former attorney general of California, who is black, exemplified the change. In 2014, she said it would be irresponsible for her as the state’s “top cop” to support California’s legalization of recreational cannabis, which passed in a referendum two years later. In last year’s midterm elections, Michigan voters made the state the first in the Midwest to legalize recreational marijuana. Meanwhile, Missouri, Oklahoma and Utah overwhelmingly approved medical marijuana, adding to a total of 33 states and the District of Columbia to do so. Democratic gains in state government are pushing several toward legalization this year, including New York and New Jersey. Mr. Trump has been inconsistent on the issue, saying that legalization “should be up to the states, absolutely” during the 2016 campaign, but appointing Jeff Sessions as attorney general, who cleared the way to crack down on states that had legalized the drug. Last year, Mr. Trump signaled support for a bipartisan bill introduced by Senators Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, and Ms. Warren to shield state-licensed cannabis businesses from federal prosecution. The bill highlights that marijuana is not strictly a left-right issue, as does Mr. Biden’s history of supporting the drug crackdown. Whether primary voters penalize Mr. Biden over his past remains an open question. A recent poll of likely Democratic primary voters in New Hampshire by the Democratic firm Change Research seemed to suggest he may be putting the issue behind him. It found that even among those who called marijuana legalization their No. 1 priority, Mr. Biden was still the second-most popular candidate, after Mr. Sanders. An earlier version of this article misstated the aim of Senator Cory Booker’s Marijuana Justice Act. It would remove marijuana from the federal list of controlled substances; it would not legalize the drug nationwide. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting from Keokuk, Iowa.   ", "id": "5c8e0cf149f0eacbf105d821", "date": "2019-03-17T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A ‘Beat Trump’ Fervor Is Producing Big Turnouts for 2020 Democrats", "full_text": " IOWA CITY — They dragged their friends to see Bernie Sanders in Iowa. In South Carolina, their unrelenting selfie requests made Cory Booker late. And in New Hampshire, so many showed up at a church for an event with Kamala Harris that an overflow crowd had to stand outside in the snow. “I’m super overwhelmed by the number of Democratic candidates that have already come out,” Regan Johnson, a 28-year-old from Omaha, said on Thursday in Council Bluffs, Iowa, where Mr. Sanders appeared at the first of three rallies in the state. “Hopefully the excitement continues and we’re able to get a good, viable candidate that can beat Trump.” [Read more: Bernie Sanders-style politics are defining 2020 race, unnerving moderates.] As the already large presidential field grows by the week, the enthusiasm that propelled Democrats to a decisive takeover of the House in the midterms is still surging, driving crowd sizes and intensity typically seen in the days before the first caucuses and primaries, not a year ahead of them. Powered by an almost desperate yearning to oust President Trump, and galvanized by the most diverse field in presidential primary history, Democrats are packing into gymnasiums, churches and exhibition halls to hear candidates speak — even if they are far from committed to supporting the candidate they are showing up to see. The populist message many of the candidates have on offer is resonating: From Northern California to Council Bluffs to the Brooklyn streets where Mr. Sanders was raised, voters are delighting in the calls to spurn big donors, the policies to fight wealth inequality and the promises of relief from college debt and steep medical bills. Ms. Harris kicked off her campaign in January with a rally in downtown Oakland before more than 20,000 people. Hundreds turned out to see Senator Kirsten Gillibrand last month at Dartmouth College, her alma mater. Even Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who briefly toyed with running for president before bowing out this week, lured a throng of New Hampshire voters to a recent meet-and-greet at a bookstore. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But it is Mr. Sanders’s ability to muster supporters, and his focus at this point on big, showy rallies rather than smaller events like town halls, that perhaps best captures the early 2020 ebullience. At this stage of the race, his events are also doubling as shows of force — supporters filled a Navy Pier hall in Chicago — evoking the strategy of President Trump, whose 2016 campaign gathered momentum in part because of the large rallies he held before similarly boisterous crowds. Some 2,000 people, many from neighboring Omaha, came to see Mr. Sanders in Council Bluffs on Thursday, erupting more than once into now-familiar chants of “BER-nie! BER-nie!” As a band played tunes in an exhibition hall that smelled of freshly popped popcorn, small children amused themselves on a makeshift bed of winter jackets as a group of adults looked on. On Friday night, an overflow crowd of more than 1,300 turned out to see the Vermont senator in Iowa City. (Candidates are not forgoing smaller events completely: Between big rallies in Iowa, Mr. Sanders dropped by a senior center in Des Moines Friday that was hosting lunchtime Bingo.) Early polling data underscores the displays of grass-roots enthusiasm: A recent University of New Hampshire survey showed that more than 60 percent of Democrats said they were “extremely interested” in the primary, significantly higher than they reported at this stage in each of the last three cycles. Overall, half of those polled in the state said they were “extremely interested” in the primary. While the energy has been uplifting for many of the candidates, it has also posed something of a challenge for anyone looking to gauge early-stage popularity: Because voters are showing up in such high numbers and cheering so enthusiastically, even for lesser known candidates, the traditional measures of excitement — crowd size, noise — no longer distinguish individual contenders. (Two candidates who have yet to join the race, Beto O’Rourke and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden, are expected to bring big crowds in their own right.) “In past cycles, you were there for Edwards, you were there for Barack Obama, you were there for Hillary, you were there for Bernie,” said Sean Bagniewski, the chair of the Polk County Democratic Party in Iowa, which includes Des Moines. “All of our Democrats take the prospect of defeating Donald Trump so seriously that it’s almost like everybody is on the same team.” The early grass-roots enthusiasm is also buoying email lists and fund-raising numbers. Ms. Harris’s campaign, for instance, boasted that it had raised $1.5 million in its first 24 hours. And Mr. Sanders’s campaign said it had collected $10 million from 359,914 donors in its first week, an extraordinary number that underscores the power of his small-dollar donor base. His campaign also says that more than one million people have signed up as volunteers. Although many people have not yet decided which candidate they will support, political watchers say the level of engagement is comparable to what they typically see much closer to the primaries and portends high voter turnout. Michael McDonald, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida who studies voting data, said he believed enthusiasm and voter turnout were correlated. “We already know interest is running high given so many other indicators, so I expect turnout will run high for the 2020 primaries on the Democratic side,” he said in an email. In the general election, he added, “We may see a hundred-year storm for turnout.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter. Lisa Lerer will be your guide through the 2020 race and share what you really need to know.] But while the across-the-board cheerleading makes it difficult to gauge front-runner status — and may be prompting some candidates to hold big rallies and town halls instead of more intimate events — it has also afforded candidates early validation, to say nothing of an ego bump. When Cory Booker arrived roughly 20 minutes late for a Sunday evening event at Voorhees College in Denmark, S.C. — waylaid by a relentless line of voters seeking selfies — about 300 people in the town of 2,900 were waiting patiently for the senator. After giving a short speech, followed by a panel, he spent 80 minutes answering questions from the crowd, which refused to thin even as the event stretched past the local restaurant closing times. The senator continued taking photos and Instagramming with supporters well after most of the lights in the back of the hall had been shut off. One of those still waiting in line as the clock struck 10 was Clinton Wade, 54. “Just found my candidate after today,” he said as he sought to shake the senator’s hand. In Gwinnett County, Ga., last month, more than 1,000 people packed into a high school gymnasium to see Senator Elizabeth Warren, who delighted the audience with her calls for “Medicare for all” and raising the minimum wage. During her address, the crowd periodically broke out into chants of “Go Liz, go!” and “Warren,” accompanied by crescendos of bleacher-banging. On Friday evening at the University of Iowa, a line made up mostly of college students buzzed with anticipation, then streamed into the hall until the fire marshal capped the crowd at just over 1,300, Mr. Sanders’s campaign said. Minutes before his rally was to begin, Mr. Sanders briefly addressed the hundreds of people who were unable to get into the main hall. “The bad news is you can’t get into the other room,” he said as he stepped onto a makeshift stage without a lectern. “But you’re here!” someone shouted. And there he was, delivering without notes an abridged, eight-and-a-half-minute version of the speech he would soon give inside. Nick Corasaniti, Astead W. Herndon and Katharine Q. Seelye contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c82c02e49f0eacbf105c1d2", "date": "2019-03-08T19:17:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump’s Attack on Ilhan Omar: How the 2020 Democrats Diverged in Response", "full_text": " The first reaction came Friday evening, from Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. President Trump had escalated his political attacks on Ilhan Omar, the Minnesota Democrat who is also one of the first Muslim women to serve in Congress, tweeting an inflammatory video that implied she trivialized the horror of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. Ninety minutes later, Mr. Sanders called the video “disgusting and dangerous,” and an example of “Trump’s racism and hate.” It kicked off a cascade of analogous statements from other Democrats who are running for president, including Senator Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and former Representative Beto O’Rourke, all of whom weighed in shortly afterward. Not on that list: Senators Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker, who waited until later in the weekend to offer statements of support. It did not go unnoticed. “Black folks are watching. Muslim folks are watching. Brown folks are watching,’’ said Jennifer Epps-Addison, the co-executive director of the Center for Popular Democracy, a liberal organizing group focusing on minority communities. “And we’re making our decisions about who to support in real time. When your sister is being attacked, you can’t wait to get the politics right.” For candidates competing in a wide open presidential primary, the question of how — and when — to engage with Mr. Trump’s political broadsides has become a dividing line among Democrats and party activists. Just as some advocacy groups are looking to make certain policies litmus tests for a candidate’s progressive credentials, such as “Medicare for all” and the Green New Deal, others are monitoring how quickly and forcefully each responds to Mr. Trump’s most inflammatory moments — whether he’s using images from the nation’s darkest days to attack Ms. Omar or suggesting that authorities should release detained migrants in Democratic cities, as he also did in recent days. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Trump’s actions do not divide Democrats on the merits, as nothing unites all corners of the party more than the desire to oust him from the White House. His effect on the primary is more political; for voters and activists outraged by Mr. Trump’s actions and rhetoric, only a quick and unequivocal response is satisfactory. Mr. Trump set off the controversy when he targeted Ms. Omar on Friday with a video of the World Trade Center burning and other images from the attacks, playing to suggestions from conservatives that she had minimized the horrors of that day in a speech she gave last month. Ms. Omar’s spokesman said the right was mischaracterizing her remarks. In supporting Ms. Omar over the weekend, the differences in the statements from Democrats were slight, but striking. Some candidates, such as Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris, overtly tied Mr. Trump’s actions to xenophobia and an anti-Muslim sentiment. “I’ll be blunt — we must defeat him,” Ms. Harris said. “I am grateful for @IlhanMN courage and leadership and I stand with her — and with others targeted by the President’s anti-Muslim rhetoric,” tweeted another candidate, former Housing Secretary Julián Castro. Candidates who have tried to position themselves as pragmatic options to a party lurching to the left, including Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Representatives Tim Ryan of Ohio and Eric Swalwell of California, all offered varying measures of support, but also tried to refocus the incident to highlight the need to unify the country. Mr. O’Rourke was criticized for an initial statement that did not mention Ms. Omar by name, but rather said: “We are stronger than this president’s hatred and Islamophobia. Do not let him drive us apart or make us afraid.” Later, on the campaign trail, Mr. O’Rourke updated his rhetoric to match the calls from Democratic activists, invoking Ms. Omar specifically and connecting Mr. Trump’s tweets to controversial policies such as family separation at the border and the administration’s travel ban for predominantly Muslim countries. “This is an incitement to violence against Congresswoman Omar and our fellow Americans who happen to be Muslim,” Mr. O’Rourke said later. “This hatred and division and paranoia and anxiety sown by this president are dangerous, and the consequences frankly are mortal for our fellow Americans,” he added. “He is using the oldest play in the book: fear and division.” Zahra Billoo, the executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations chapter in the San Francisco Bay Area, said that, “as a Muslim and a woman of color and a daughter of immigrants,” these moments help give her clarity on who is willing to stand up for her community. While acknowledging that most voters won’t be aware of the fine gradations between the various statements, or the times they were released, Ms. Billoo said the moments in aggregate can help create an impression about which candidates can be trusted by historically marginalized communities. “We are seeing a shift in the Democratic Party where there’s a fracture,” Ms. Billoo said in a phone interview. “One side being moderate, even timid. And the emerging side of the party is stepping up to the plate, and recognizing that we’re in an unprecedented moment in time.” “I’m more invested in the candidates who are willing to speak up and call it what it is,” she said. The statement from Ms. Gillibrand, in particular, raised eyebrows in politically active circles. Though she has sought to cast herself as full-throated progressive, she qualified her support for Ms. Omar by saying, “As a Senator who represents 9/11 victims, I can’t accept any minimizing of that pain.” Critics lashed back, saying her comments only gave more credence to the slew of misinformation surrounding Ms. Omar. Ms. Epps-Addison called it shameful, as did Ms. Billoo. Diane Alston, a 24-year-old from Houston who had recently been quoted in an article about the New York senator’s most vocal superfans, nicknamed “Gillistans,” said the statement was enough to force her to rethink whom she planned to support. “Ilhan didn’t minimize the pain of 9/11 victims,” Ms. Alston said. “For Gillibrand to state that she did — when her words were blatantly taken out of context — is shameful and legitimizes a smear against a black Muslim woman already facing death threats,” she said. Tyler Law, a party strategist and former spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said the weekend should be instructive for all candidates: In an election against Mr. Trump, they will have to be prepared to deal with his shameless politicking, in which he will use his large platform to amplify attacks through the media. “The way this clip was laundered through the press is almost a perfect master class,” Mr. Law said. “The entire media ecosystem our outrage thrives in is so clearly not built for the new perspectives and nuances of the most diverse Democratic caucus in history.” “The 2018 midterms demonstrated clearly that while voters are not eager to support someone who will evoke Trump’s name at every turn,” Mr. Law said, “they sure as hell want someone with the backbone to stand up to this bully.” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, have both been criticized for not standing with Ms. Omar more unequivocally. On Sunday afternoon, Ms. Pelosi announced that she had instructed congressional officials to do a “security assessment” to ensure that Ms. Omar was safe following Mr. Trump’s Twitter post. “The president’s words weigh a ton, and his hateful and inflammatory rhetoric creates real danger,” she said. “President Trump must take down his disrespectful and dangerous video.” On Sunday afternoon, it remained on the president’s page.    ", "id": "5cb3ac5b49f0eacbf1f83ffc", "date": "2019-04-14T21:54:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Far Left Is Too Far Left for 2020 Democrats?", "full_text": " Or is that question beside the point in the Trump era? Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so. A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation. Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020? Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi: Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies. The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results. The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question  As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves? Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35. The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent. Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent. For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election. Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia. Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it. Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs. The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed. If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed. Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range. Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries. In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions. “Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email: In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections. Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican. He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates: The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents. Lelkes’s conclusion? If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions. There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford. Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primary the party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points. Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent. A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left: The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years. In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data. These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote: Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed. This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes, have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won. The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is that in a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages. In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues that On race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats. Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted: It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes. In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left: If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success? Carmines added: Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success. Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.” Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January: Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans. Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independents are younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election. Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates. The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.” He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.” In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson, the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee. Trump, Jacobson noted, will try to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others. The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson. Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me, might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision. She elaborated: There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things. Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic. In an email, he wrote: The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government. In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealers is not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power. In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard. Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post. At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned: So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way? Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public. Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party: One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens. For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes. Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall ", "id": "5cadbeff49f0eacbf1f82454", "date": "2019-04-10T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Democrats Align With Trump on Syria and Afghanistan", "full_text": " You don’t often see this in Washington: some of the most liberal candidates in the 2020 presidential field lining up with President Trump on foreign policy. Every declared presidential candidate in the Senate, and three other senators who are considering running, voted on Tuesday against a bill that, among other things, condemns Mr. Trump’s decision to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan and Syria. (You can read more about the legislation here.) The senators in question are: • Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, all declared candidates. • Sherrod Brown, Jeff Merkley and Bernie Sanders, who are eyeing the race. Senator Amy Klobuchar, another Democrat who is widely expected to run for president, voted for the bill, as did Senator Michael Bennet, who is considering a run. The measure passed the Senate, 77 to 23, and now goes to the House. The bill has several parts, some controversial and some not, and the senators voting no were not necessarily doing so solely because of troop withdrawals. Mr. Brown, for instance, said he was concerned about the constitutionality of the bill’s other contentious provision, which would let state and local governments punish companies that boycott Israeli products. For almost 15 years, since the Iraq war became an unpopular drag on President George W. Bush, Democrats have generally opposed extended military interventions in other nations. So it’s not surprising that most of the 2020 candidates would want to bring troops home from Afghanistan and Syria sooner rather than later. The twist is that this is a rare issue on which, ideologically, Mr. Trump is more aligned with Democrats than Republicans — which creates an awkward political situation for the Democrats, who would not normally decline an opportunity to rebuke Mr. Trump. But even under previous presidents, foreign policy has split Democrats, often painfully. John Kerry famously had to walk that tightrope as the party’s presidential nominee in 2004, when an increasingly antiwar electorate denounced his previous support for the Iraq war. At one point, he said of a supplemental appropriation for the war, “I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it,” a line that allowed opponents to brand him as a “flip-flopper” and haunted him for the rest of the campaign. Tuesday’s vote underscored how politically fraught issues of military force and funding still are, especially as the liberal wing of the Democratic Party gains strength. The bill now goes to the House, where the new Democratic majority is likely to pass only routine provisions such as renewed military aid for Israel and Jordan. Democrats are hardly eager to advance the troop withdrawal or anti-boycott provisions, both of which have exposed fissures within the party — and which Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, a member of the Democratic leadership, has called a “political stunt” by Republicans. Even if the full bill were to pass the House, the troop withdrawal provision is nonbinding. It simply expresses Congress’s disapproval of Mr. Trump’s plans, and the president would then have to decide whether to buck his own party and bring troops home anyway. Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c5a1f8f3a125f5075c082cd", "date": "2019-02-05T23:42:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Decision for 2020 Democrats: Should They Get in the Race Early, or Really Early?", "full_text": " Political Memo The country is 337 days away from the Iowa caucuses and 611 days from the general election for president. But that’s not stopping Democrats from debating the politics of entering the race really, really early or just, well, plain old-fashioned early. A dozen candidates, half of whom are women, rushed into the contest in the first two months of 2019, creating the most diverse primary field in history. Now, the party is on the cusp of a second round of announcements: A wave of white men, most of whom have targeted March as their do-or-die moment. “Amy and I have made a decision about how we can best serve our country,” former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas aid in a brief statement on Wednesday. “We are excited to share it with everyone soon.” Michael R. Bloomberg gave himself a timeline of “three more weeks” to decide — two and a half weeks ago. Asked last Sunday whether he was running, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington answered, “We’re getting to that point where we can talk to you about that.” Mr. Inslee announced his bid Friday morning, and former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado is expected to enter the race as soon as next week. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio is wrapping up his tour of early primary states, leaving him a week or two away from making a decision, say those who have spoken to him. “We are in a period of campaigns starting earlier,” said Joel Benenson, a Democratic pollster who played a top role in Barack Obama’s and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaigns. “I don’t think that you’re dead in the water if you don’t get in by April 1, but you don’t have a lot of time after that.” [Make sense of the 2020 election with our newsletter, On Politics With Lisa Lerer.] There are arguments for both an early and a late start. A winter launch means more time to raise money, attract coveted staff members and build grass-roots support. But a spring announcement could bring the appeal of a fresh face into a crowded field. Some of those considering joining the race are not household names, and an earlier entrance might have gotten lost in the sea of announcements from prominent Democrats like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand. The exception, of course, is former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who polls show would instantly be the early front-runner if he ran. His indecision has fed a constant stream of will-he-or-won’t-he speculation. Mr. Biden, in an appearance Tuesday at the University of Delaware, said his family is urging him to run. But, he added, “I’m not there yet.” “I have not made the final decision — but don’t be surprised,” he said. If he were to run, he said, he expected he would enter the race in the second quarter of the year. Mr. O’Rourke, whose strong showing in his failed challenge to Senator Ted Cruz boosted him to political stardom, has kept his decision-making process far more closely held. While Mr. O’Rourke has spent his time since his Senate defeat traveling the country, posting viral Instagram videos and talking to voters, others’ presidential aspirations have been complicated by their day jobs. Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana, another potential candidate, is reluctant to spend much time traveling to early primary states during his state’s legislative session, a gathering that happens only once every two years and isn’t expected to finish until April, his aides say. Mr. Hickenlooper was governor until early January, making it difficult for him to fully focus on a presidential campaign until after the new year, aides said. He has argued taking the extra time is worth the potential cost. “To me, it’s better to be late a few weeks and lose money on it, and not have raised as much money as you would have, but actually have everybody unified,” Mr. Hickenlooper told Colorado reporters, who traveled to Iowa to cover his not-quite-yet-campaign. Of course, in 2020, “late” is still really early. Democratic candidates have packed the field far faster in 2019 than in any other primary contest in the modern era. [Just how early are candidates joining the race? We looked at every primary since 1972.] For those outside the race, the whole discussion over whether to announce in January or April seems slightly insane. “The primaries are in a few weeks, right?” joked Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, who has endorsed Ms. Harris. “The whole thing, it’s absurd. ‘Biden really needs to decide right now.’ Really, does he? I mean come on.” But whether Mr. Biden is out or in, Democrats haven’t seen a race this wide open in over a decade. Competition for donors and staff is fierce, with some early-state operatives being courted by nearly a dozen candidates, candidates-to-be and potential candidates. Already, fund-raising requests flood Democrats’ inboxes, a reflection of the frenzy around small-dollar donations that has taken hold as candidates try to court the party’s base by rejecting corporate and big-dollar donations — at least for the primary contest. The earlier candidates enter the race, the more time they have to build up their political ATMs — a roster of potential supporters they can tap again and again for contributions. They will be competing with grass-roots fund-raising behemoths, some of whom have millions left over from past campaigns and expansive lists of supporters. Mr. Sanders, for instance, collected over $10 million in his first week as a candidate, according to campaign officials. Much of the fund-raising anxiety stems from the looming deadline of April 15, the date candidates must file their first financial reports of the year with the Federal Election Commission. With early polling measuring little more than name recognition, those numbers are typically viewed as the first real demonstration of relative strength. “I would not wait much longer,” said Stephanie Schriock, the president of the political action committee Emily’s List and an early proponent of online fund-raising as Howard Dean’s national finance director. “If they’re going to run they’ve got to go. The money isn’t just going to come immediately.” Supporters of Ms. Warren, who effectively pushed up the start date of the race with her surprise New Year’s Eve announcement, say her early entrance allowed unfettered political space for her message. But she has still faced fund-raising struggles, as Mr. Sanders — who poses perhaps her toughest competition for economic progressives — has raised far more money. “Being first in has one downside: People can applaud your big bold ideas while also thinking, ‘I’d like to wait six months before picking a horse and making my first donation,’” said Adam Green, co-founder of the liberal Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has endorsed Ms. Warren. Julián Castro, the former housing secretary and former mayor of San Antonio, who launched his exploratory committee more than two weeks before Ms. Warren, described his early start as a strategic choice to give himself the best shot at building a following against better-known and better-financed rivals. “What I need is time. I need the fight to start earlier,” Mr. Castro said. But some Democrats question whether the traditional rules of the so-called “invisible primary” — the pre-voting period when candidates rack up endorsements, donors and media attention — still apply. In 2015, President Trump entered the primaries in June, and Mr. Sanders at the end of April. Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who is working for Mr. Hickenlooper, says the real sorting of the field will begin with the first primary debate in June, a potentially two-night event that she believes will have “off-the-chart” viewership. “I just think all these traditional trappings of primary campaigns were upended in 2016 and are already being upended in 2020,” Ms. Greenberg said. “Nobody really knows what the rules are now.”   ", "id": "5c7852ee49f0eacbf105abd4", "date": "2019-02-28T21:28:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Democrats Court Young Voters. But Will They Show Up?", "full_text": " GRINNELL, Iowa — Beto O'Rourke and other 2020 Democratic presidential candidates making appeals to young voters face a challenge. They can soak up the energy of young crowds at campus rallies, but that doesn't necessarily translate into support on Election Day. Even when enthusiasm about an election is high, as it was during the 2018 midterms, young people often participate in lower rates than their older counterparts. Last year in Iowa, home to several competitive races, voters ages 18 to 24 made up less than 7% of the overall electorate, according to the Iowa secretary of state. It can be even tougher to get someone to show up for a presidential caucus.", "id": "5caf219749f0eacbf1f82bdd", "date": "2019-04-11T11:13:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Vice President Season Starts Early for 2020 Democrats", "full_text": " On Politics With Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] Forget about the race for president — some 2020 Democratic candidates are already picking their running mates. Cory Booker and Beto O’Rourke, asked if they’d pick a woman, were quick to vow that they would. Joseph R. Biden Jr., before he has even entered the race, is scoping out Stacey Abrams (who’s considering her own presidential bid), as well as Kamala Harris and Beto O’Rourke (who are currently running for president). All that chatter prompted former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado to wonder at a CNN town hall Wednesday night why the female candidates aren’t being asked if they’d pick a man as their vice president. Well, thanks for asking, governor! We actually posed that very question to Elizabeth Warren on Sunday night, after an event in Memphis, Tenn. Here’s what she had to say: “I want somebody who’s going to get out there and fight on behalf of working people. That’s what matters most.” That response, though extremely on message, is very different from the ones offered by some of her male opponents. “No matter what — I’m looking you in the eye and saying this — there will be a woman on the ticket,” said. Mr. Booker. “I don’t know if it’s in the vice president’s position or the president’s position, but if I have my way, there will be a woman on the ticket.” There’s definitely something bizarre about so many candidates publicly mulling their vice-presidential picks, given that we’re still nearly a year away from the first votes being cast. Typically, this kind of discussion happens behind closed doors, and not for another year or so. But this strange little side narrative tells us two notable things about the primary race: 1. Women have power. The question is how much. In 2018, women powered Democratic gains — as candidates, volunteers and voters — and it seems like the party is going into this contest with a sense that they could do the same next spring. The running mate remarks show that the campaigns believe they need a woman on a ticket; the men are just hoping that it doesn’t have to be at the top. Now, does that mean you should bet on a female candidate becoming the nominee? Uh, definitely not. The double standard that female candidates face is real and still hard to overcome, particularly in a presidential contest. 2. Everyone is a pundit. The Democratic obsession with beating President Trump has turned everyone into a talking head. When asked, it’s not surprising for average voters to deliver their own detailed assessment of which candidate has the best chance of winning over the Midwest, liberals or black voters. There’s a ton of strategic thinking going on in the minds of the Democratic primary electorate. This kind of vice-presidential chatter seems squarely aimed at a party of punditocracy. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ At a CNN town hall this week, Elizabeth Warren’s biggest line wasn’t about Medicare for all, the Green New Deal or taxing the ultrarich. It was about the Electoral College. “My view is that every vote matters,” she said. “And the way we can make that happen is that we can have national voting, and that means get rid of the Electoral College.” The system the country has used to pick presidents since 1789 is decidedly out of fashion with Democrats. Beto O’Rourke said on Tuesday that “there’s a lot of wisdom” in scrapping it. Kamala Harris is “open” to the idea. Pete Buttigieg says it’s “got to go.” And polling shows three-quarters of Democratic voters support a national popular vote. But abolishing it would require amending the Constitution, which is, by design, an arduous process that only lets through the most bipartisan of ideas. Enter the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact. It’s an agreement between states to award their electoral votes to whichever candidate wins the popular vote. The pact would only take effect if the states involved were worth at least 270 electoral votes, the number it takes to win the Electoral College. (Of course, you can bet that if the proposal actually hit 270 there would be plenty of lawsuits challenging it.) This week, Colorado became the 12th state to sign on to the agreement, bringing the total to 181 electoral votes. It’s clear why Democrats would want to change the system. They have won the popular vote in six of the last seven elections, but lost two of those — George W. Bush in 2000 and President Trump in 2016 — because of the Electoral College. And the party fears those kinds of losses could become more frequent in coming elections, because of a demographic shift that has emerged as a serious threat for them: Democrats simply have more voters in fewer states. But the issue hasn’t always belonged to the left. Both parties have embraced the idea that the system, as Mr. Trump famously put it, is “rigged.” The president, it’s worth noting, has railed against the Electoral College since 2012. “I would rather have the popular vote, but for me it’s much easier to win the popular vote,” he said on “Fox and Friends” last April. “It’s what the Democrats use to make an excuse for their loss of an election.” His views changed some after the Democratic push this week. Perhaps “rigged” is the eye of the loser? What do you think of the plan to abolish the Electoral College? Send your thoughts to onpolitics@nytimes.com, including your name and state, and we may include it in next week’s newsletter. ____________________ • The prime minister of New Zealand announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques there last week. The ban is expected to encounter little resistance, and the largest opposition party quickly said it supported the measures. • The American Museum of Natural History is correcting history in plain view. • The Washington Post goes deep into the politics of the modern — and very traditional — marriage of Beto and Amy O’Rourke. ____________________ Mueller Watch continues! Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c940f6e49f0eacbf105e5e2", "date": "2019-03-21T22:24:20+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Quotation of the Day: ‘Beat Trump’ Fervor Lifts All 2020 Democrats", "full_text": " “We may see a hundred-year storm for turnout.” MICHAEL McDONALD, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida who studies voting data, on high voter interest among Democrats in the 2020 elections.", "id": "5c83367e49f0eacbf105c2d1", "date": "2019-03-09T03:42:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Democrats Embrace Race-Conscious Policies, Including Reparations", "full_text": " From the very first day of the 2020 presidential race, when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts blamed “generations of discrimination” for black families earning far less than white households, Democratic hopefuls have broadly emphasized racial justice and closing the wealth gap in their policy platforms. But in recent weeks, some candidates have started embracing specific goals and overtly race-conscious legislation that even the most left-wing elected officials stayed away from in recent years. Last week, on the popular radio show “The Breakfast Club,” Senator Kamala Harris of California agreed with a host’s suggestion that government reparations for black Americans were necessary to address the legacies of slavery and discrimination. Ms. Harris later affirmed that support in a statement to The New York Times. “We have to be honest that people in this country do not start from the same place or have access to the same opportunities,” she said. “I’m serious about taking an approach that would change policies and structures and make real investments in black communities.” Ms. Warren also said she supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery — a policy that experts say could cost several trillion dollars, and one that Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and many top Democrats have not supported. The Warren campaign declined to give further details on that backing, but it came amid her calls for the federal government to provide special home-buying assistance to residents of communities that were adversely affected by “redlining,” the discriminatory practice of denying mortgages, usually in poor and nonwhite areas. She also announced a sweeping universal child-care proposal that could strongly benefit minority communities that often have limited early childhood services. The morally driven policy goals of Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren reflect a broader shift in the importance of race and identity issues in the Democratic Party, according to several scholars and political leaders who focus on the intersection of race and politics. While Democrats have long cast themselves as more inclusive than the Republican Party, grass-roots organizers and many liberal voters of all races are now pushing elected officials to go further on policies of racial equality, regardless of any political calculations. But race-conscious policies could emerge as a fissure in a wide-open Democratic primary, as some moderate candidates seek to run against the party’s recent leftward lurch. There are also political risks for the general election: Republicans have long attempted to paint Democrats who embrace policies that address racial inequalities as anti-white, and polling often shows reparations for black Americans remains an unpopular policy across the country. That two leading Democratic candidates have embraced reparations — the concept that the federal government should both acknowledge the ongoing legacy of slavery and discrimination and provide compensatory payment to those affected — is a major shift from past presidential campaigns and a win for activists who have tried to push the issue into the mainstream for decades. Julián Castro, the former cabinet secretary who is also running for president, has also indicated that he would support reparations. Even among the 2020 Democrats who stopped short of endorsing reparations, several have laid out robust policies aimed at closing the gap in wealth between black and white families. Scholars estimate that black families in America today earn just $57.30 for every $100 in income earned by white families, according to the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. For every $100 in white family wealth, black families hold just $5.04. Senator Cory Booker’s “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account that could total up to $50,000 for the lowest income brackets. The plan has been praised by liberal scholars, who think it could go a long way in helping lower-income Americans begin to build wealth. And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has endorsed a proposal to allow Americans without checking accounts to bank at the local post office; a disproportionate percentage of America’s unbanked population are people of color. María Urbina, national policy director for the progressive group Indivisible, said that after years of being pushed by activists, the Democratic Party was getting closer to applying its liberal values to racial equality. Policies like reparations or “baby bonds” that seek to close the racial wealth gap, she said, should be viewed similarly to idealistic programs that have been embraced by Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, including the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all.” “We want folks who are being ambitious, not just working within the margins and the contours of what we had before, but sort of reimagining things on our own terms and being really aspirational,” Ms. Urbina said. Sandy Darity, a Duke University professor who is a leading scholar on reparations and the racial wealth gap, said he believes more black Americans may come to see reparations as a defining issue for their support. “There is a point in black Americans making a collective decision to treat a candidate’s attitude toward reparations as a litmus test for supporting them,” Dr. Darity said. “I think if folks had paid closer attention to the fact that Barack Obama was against reparations, they would have not been as disappointed by his presidency, because they would have had more realistic expectations about what he was likely to do.” Among Democrats, the idea of reparations has been unpopular until very recently. For more than two decades, Representative John Conyers, the Detroit Democratic stalwart who resigned in December 2017, repeatedly introduced a reparations bill to Congress that received little support from either party. Mr. Sanders, the Vermont leftist whose rhetoric of a political revolution won him throngs of supporters in the last Democratic primary and disrupted the party establishment, dismissed the idea of reparations as politically unpalatable in January 2016, upsetting some racial justice activists who found his answer hypocritical. Mrs. Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders for the 2016 nomination, also declined to support reparations. Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, was seen in some political quarters as reticent about prioritizing the interests of black voters, and he called the idea of reparations impractical in 2016. “I’m not so optimistic as to think that you would ever be able to garner a majority of an American Congress that would make those kinds of investments, above and beyond the kinds of investments that could be made in a progressive program for lifting up all people,” Mr. Obama said. As Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris seek to lead the party into a new era, their support for the policy — which did not come with specifics — signals just how quickly prominent Democrats have expanded their political imagination after decades of dominance by the Clintons and Mr. Obama. Ms. Warren, in particular, has attempted to stake out more aggressive policies to push other Democrats in the race. Her proposal for universal child care would make the service free to any family earning up to double the federal poverty level, and would increase wages for child care workers — two initiatives that could particularly affect black and Latino communities, where informal child-care arrangements are more common. “We must confront the dark history of slavery and government-sanctioned discrimination in this country that has had many consequences, including undermining the ability of black families to build wealth in America for generations,” Ms. Warren told The Times. “We need systemic, structural changes to address that.” Another sign of the party’s shift on race: Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat whose bold policy ideas and devoted national following have upended Capitol Hill, also voiced her support for reparations earlier this month. “Until America tells the truth about itself, we’re not going to heal,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said at a forum with Ta-Nehisi Coates, the writer whose landmark 2014 article, “The Case For Reparations,” helped thrust the issue back into American consciousness. Other Democratic 2020 candidates — including Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — either did not respond to requests for comment or stopped short of an endorsement of reparations. Instead, several laid out policies that, though not intended as a redress for slavery, would benefit black Americans. Mr. Booker “is running for president to reignite our sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation — that means enacting policies that atone for this nation’s history of intentionally discriminatory public policy toward African-Americans,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for his campaign. “You cannot address the systemic racism unique to this country without proposing race-conscious solutions.” Darrick Hamilton, a professor at Ohio State University who has worked with Dr. Darity on research regarding inequality, said Mr. Booker’s “baby bonds” plan could substantially transform wealth building measures for poor Americans and minorities and could help minorities grow assets. Dr. Hamilton and Dr. Darity both panned Ms. Harris’s signature economic proposals, which would dramatically expand a tax credit for middle-class families and provide rent relief to those struggling to afford rising home costs. Both proposals are “income-based,” the professors said, and would do little to stem wealth inequality between races. Only one 2020 candidate has laid out a reparations plan with specifics: Marianne Williamson, the best-selling author and self-described “spiritual teacher.” Since the start of her long-shot campaign, Ms. Williamson has called for $100 billion in reparations for black Americans — far more than any other Democrat, but substantially less than what scholars have said would be necessary. “Paltry,” Dr. Darity said of Ms. Williamson’s plan. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley ", "id": "5c6ef1b43a125f5075c0ad9e", "date": "2019-02-21T18:43:38+0000"}]