[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Administration Approves Medicaid Work Requirements in Utah", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Just two days after a federal court struck down work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries in Arkansas and Kentucky, the Trump administration approved similar requirements in Utah on Friday. The administration acknowledged that some Utah residents might lose coverage, but said that others would become healthier and gain financial independence because they were working. In approving a Medicaid waiver for Utah, the Trump administration is reaffirming its conservative priorities, defying critics and inviting another round of litigation. Under the new Utah program, 70,000 to 90,000 adults will become eligible for Medicaid, and they can begin applying for coverage on Monday. The waiver has a novel feature to control costs: Utah can freeze enrollment of newly eligible beneficiaries if the projected costs of their coverage exceed the funds appropriated by the State Legislature. Seema Verma, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, who approved the waiver, said that Utah had found a “fiscally sustainable” way to cover more people. Utah voters in November approved a full expansion of Medicaid as envisioned in the Affordable Care Act, to cover people with annual incomes up to 138 percent of the poverty level — up to about $17,235 for an individual. But state legislators had different ideas and approved a more limited expansion, to 100 percent of the poverty level, or $12,490 for an individual, with work requirements. That is the program approved on Friday. In her approval letter, Ms. Verma said the work requirements could help people achieve financial independence and obtain jobs providing health insurance. “If participating in community engagement activities improves beneficiaries’ physical and mental health,” Ms. Verma wrote, “these beneficiaries may consume fewer health care resources, thus keeping in check state costs on Medicaid.” “Some beneficiaries could lose coverage, at least temporarily, for failure to comply” with the work requirements, Ms. Verma said. But she said the Utah program had safeguards, including exemptions from the work requirements for certain people who were disabled, caring for children under the age of 6 or being treated for drug addiction. Medicaid is an open-ended entitlement program, meaning that benefits are generally available to anyone who meets eligibility criteria established by the federal and state governments. Ms. Verma defended the enrollment limits as a way for Utah to keep within its budget, so it would not have to cut benefits. Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah, a Republican, welcomed approval of the state program, describing it as “an important first step in covering vulnerable Utahans in a financially sustainable way.” But Joan C. Alker, the executive director of the Center for Children and Families at Georgetown University, said: “Utah’s enrollment cap is in direct conflict with Medicaid’s guarantee of coverage if you meet the income eligibility requirements. As a legal matter, it is even more questionable than the waivers struck down in Arkansas and Kentucky.” Ms. Verma approved the Utah waiver in an 8,500-word letter that repeats many of the points rejected on Wednesday in the Arkansas and Kentucky cases by Judge James E. Boasberg of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia. Utah’s demonstration project promotes the health of beneficiaries and their financial independence, Ms. Verma said. Research shows a positive link between employment and “improved health outcomes,” she wrote. Judge Boasberg said that the waivers in Arkansas and Kentucky could not be justified as contributing to either the financial independence of Medicaid beneficiaries or the “fiscal sustainability” of the program for a state. Those, he said, are not independent objectives of the federal Medicaid law, and waivers are supposed to promote those objectives. The court rulings on Arkansas and Kentucky are not binding on federal officials as they consider proposals from other states. Federal officials can try to argue that the work requirements in Utah are somewhat different from those in Arkansas and Kentucky. Matthew Slonaker, the executive director of the Utah Health Policy Project, a nonprofit group that supported the full expansion of Medicaid, said, “The work requirements here are legally vulnerable, just like those in Arkansas and Kentucky.” The changes in Utah approved on Friday fall short of the expansion of Medicaid envisioned in the Affordable Care Act and endorsed by Utah voters in November. But Utah is liberalizing its current eligibility criteria. Many poor people in Utah have been ineligible for Medicaid if they do not have dependent children. The state Medicaid program has covered parents with incomes up to 60 percent of the poverty level, or about $7,500 for an individual. Utah has also extended coverage to about 3,000 adults with income below 5 percent of the poverty level, about $625 a year. “As a condition of eligibility” in Utah, beneficiaries covered under the waiver will have to register for work through the state’s online system. They will have to complete an online assessment of their job training needs and an online training program. In addition, they will have to apply for jobs with at least 48 potential employers. Under the Utah waiver, the federal government will pay about 70 percent of Medicaid costs for the newly eligible beneficiaries. If the state had fully expanded Medicaid, the federal government would have paid at least 90 percent. Utah officials are eager to obtain federal approval for two more changes in their Medicaid program. They want to get additional federal payments — the enhanced 90 percent federal share — without extending eligibility to people above the poverty level. And they want permission to impose some kind of per-person limits on Medicaid spending, which would be a huge change in the way Medicaid is financed.", "id": "5c9eaf8b49f0eacbf116591d", "date": "2019-03-29T23:50:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Judge Blocks Medicaid Work Requirements in Arkansas and Kentucky", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — A federal judge on Wednesday threw out Medicaid work requirements in two states, a blow to Republican efforts to profoundly reshape a program that has provided free health insurance to the poorest Americans for more than 50 years. In twin rulings, Judge James E. Boasberg of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia rejected for a second time Kentucky’s attempt to require recipients to work or volunteer as a condition of coverage and blocked a similar rule in Arkansas, which has resulted in more than 18,000 people there losing coverage since last summer. So far, the Trump administration has allowed eight states to begin requiring many of their Medicaid recipients to work, volunteer or train for a job to be eligible for benefits. Seven other states are seeking permission from the Department of Health and Human Services to impose similar rules. Seema Verma, the Trump appointee in charge of the Medicaid program, has described the goal as helping people “rise out of poverty and government dependence.” Judge Boasberg, an Obama appointee, had already ordered the department to re-evaluate the impact of Kentucky’s work requirement in a ruling last June, saying it had not adequately considered whether it “would in fact help the state furnish medical assistance to its citizens, a central objective of Medicaid.” In the first of his new decisions, he found the approval of Arkansas’s work rule by Alex M. Azar II, the health and human services secretary, was “arbitrary and capricious” for a similar reason. Mr. Azar had failed, the judge wrote, to “consider adequately” the impact of Arkansas’s plan on Medicaid coverage. “The court finds its guiding principle in Yogi Berra’s aphorism, ‘It’s déjà vu all over again,’” Judge Boasberg wrote. Arkansas officials had asked the judge to leave the work requirements in place in the event that he ordered Mr. Azar to further weigh their potential impact, saying that freezing them would cause too much disruption. The judge disagreed, writing that “the road to cure the deficiency in this case is, at best, a rocky one” and that any disruption “must be balanced against the harms that plaintiffs and persons like them will experience if the program remains in effect.” In the Kentucky case, Judge Boasberg said the state’s plan, with only minor changes since his last ruling, “has essentially the same features as it did before.” He said that Mr. Azar’s review and approval of the Kentucky program were fatally flawed because federal officials did not adequately consider “the coverage-loss consequences” of the work requirements. The rulings presented a serious setback not only for President Trump and Mr. Azar, but for Ms. Verma, who has led the call for conditioning government health coverage on work. She has insisted that Medicaid must not be “used as a vehicle to serve working age, able-bodied adults.” And she affirmed her goals Wednesday evening after the latest rulings came out. “We will continue to defend our efforts to give states greater flexibility to help low income Americans rise out of poverty,” Ms. Verma said. “We believe, as have numerous past administrations, that states are the laboratories of democracy and we will vigorously support their innovative, state-driven efforts to develop and test reforms that will advance the objectives of the Medicaid program.” Both states’ plans are aimed at hundreds of thousands of working-age adults who became newly eligible for Medicaid when the Affordable Care Act allowed states to expand it starting in 2014. Arkansas’s version requires most Medicaid recipients between the ages of 19 and 49 to spend 80 hours a month at a job or in “community engagement” activities, like volunteering or training for a job. Kentucky’s, which has not yet been rolled out because of the court case, does the same for people between 19 and 64. Both the Kentucky and Arkansas rules allowed exemptions for people deemed too sick to work, pregnant women, full-time students or primary caregivers of dependent children or disabled family members. The Trump administration had asserted that some people in Kentucky who lost Medicaid would gain commercial insurance coverage. But Judge Boasberg appeared skeptical, writing that federal officials “cited no research or evidence that this would happen.” Kentucky officials, meanwhile, had made the case that the work requirements could save money for the state and thus make its expansion of Medicaid “fiscally sustainable.” Gov. Matt Bevin, a Republican whose Democratic predecessor expanded the program, has warned repeatedly that he will end the expansion for financial reasons if the work rules don’t survive in court. But Judge Boasberg rejected the financial argument. Federal officials, he said, “made no finding” that the waiver would save any amount of money or make the program more sustainable. In seeking federal permission to introduce work requirements, Kentucky had estimated that 95,000 fewer residents would have been enrolled in Medicaid within five years, although its lawyers said many of those people would have found jobs that offered insurance. Lawyers for the plaintiffs predicted the number would be much greater, and the early results in Arkansas — thousands losing coverage for either failing to meet the 80-hours-per-month requirement or failing to correctly report their compliance — bolstered their case. Adam Meier, the secretary of Kentucky’s Cabinet for Health and Family Services, said in a statement, “Although a setback to our implementation schedule, we believe that we have an excellent record for appeal and are currently considering next steps.” He added, “The judge illogically concluded that Medicaid is all about paying for health care for as many people as possible without regard to whether this coverage actually makes people healthier. We emphatically disagree because a health care program like Medicaid, by its very nature, must take into account whether it improves people’s health.” Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican, said that he was “disappointed” in the ruling and would discuss it further in a news conference on Thursday. The other states that have won federal approval for Medicaid work requirements are Arizona, Indiana, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio and Wisconsin. New Hampshire’s requirement, the next to take effect, is the subject of a third lawsuit, filed last week. An earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the Arkansas governor. He is Asa Hutchinson, not Huckabee. Robert Pear contributed reporting. Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c9bf9f049f0eacbf105f6a4", "date": "2019-03-27T22:30:46+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Congress Warns Against Medicaid Cuts: ‘You Just Wait for the Firestorm’", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — If President Trump allows states to convert Medicaid into a block grant with a limit on health care spending for low-income people, he will face a firestorm of opposition in Congress, House Democrats told the nation’s top health official on Tuesday. The official, Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, endured more than four hours of bipartisan criticism over the president’s budget for 2020, which would substantially reduce projected spending on Medicaid, Medicare and biomedical research. Democrats, confronting Mr. Azar for the first time with a House majority, scorned most of the president’s proposals. But few drew as much heat as Mr. Trump’s proposed overhaul of Medicaid. His budget envisions replacing the current open-ended federal commitment to the program with a lump sum of federal money for each state in the form of a block grant, a measure that would essentially cap payments and would not keep pace with rising health care costs. Congress rejected a similar Republican plan in 2017, but in his testimony on Tuesday before the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Azar refused to rule out the possibility that he could grant waivers to states that wanted to move in that direction. Under such waivers, Mr. Azar said, he could not guarantee that everyone now enrolled in Medicaid would keep that coverage. “You couldn’t make that kind of commitment about any waiver,” Mr. Azar said. He acknowledged that the president’s budget would reduce the growth of Medicaid by $1.4 trillion in the coming decade. Representative G. K. Butterfield, Democrat of North Carolina, said that “block-granting and capping Medicaid would endanger access to care for some of the most vulnerable people” in the country, like seniors, children and the disabled. Mr. Trump provoked bipartisan opposition by declaring a national emergency to spend more money than Congress provided to build a wall along the southwestern border. If the president bypasses Congress and allows states to convert Medicaid to a block grant, Mr. Butterfield said, he could face even more of an outcry. “You just wait for the firestorm this will create,” Mr. Butterfield said, noting that more than one-fifth of Americans — more than 70 million low-income people — depend on Medicaid. As a candidate, Mr. Trump said he would not cut Medicare, but his new budget proposes to cut more than $800 billion from projected spending on the program for older Americans in the next 10 years. Mr. Azar said the proposals would not harm Medicare beneficiaries. “I don’t believe any of the proposals will impact access to services,” Mr. Azar said. Indeed, he said, the cutbacks could be a boon to Medicare beneficiaries, reducing their out-of-pocket costs. After meeting an annual deductible, beneficiaries typically pay 20 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for doctor’s services and some prescription drugs administered in doctor’s offices and outpatient hospital clinics. Mr. Azar defended a budget proposal to impose work requirements on able-bodied adults enrolled in Medicaid. Arkansas began enforcing such requirements last year under a waiver granted by the Trump administration. Since then, at least 18,000 Arkansans have lost Medicaid coverage. Mr. Azar said he did not know why they had been dropped from Medicaid. It is possible, he said, that some had found jobs providing health benefits. Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III, Democrat of Massachusetts, said it would be reckless to extend Medicaid work requirements to the entire country without knowing why people were falling off the rolls in Arkansas. If you are receiving free coverage through Medicaid, Mr. Azar said, “it is not too much to ask that you engage in some kind of community engagement.” Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, expressed deep concern about Mr. Trump’s proposal to cut the budget of the National Cancer Institute by $897 million, or 14.6 percent, to $5.2 billion. Mr. Azar said the proposal was typical of the “tough choices” in Mr. Trump’s budget. He defended the cuts proposed for the National Cancer Institute, saying they were proportional to the cuts proposed for its parent agency, the National Institutes of Health. The president’s budget would reduce funds for the N.I.H. as a whole by 12.6 percent, to $34.4 billion next year. Mr. Azar was also pressed to justify Mr. Trump’s proposal to cut federal payments to hospitals serving large numbers of low-income patients. Representative Eliot L. Engel, Democrat of New York, said the cuts, totaling $26 billion over 10 years, would be devastating to “safety net hospitals” in New York and other urban areas. Mr. Azar said that the Affordable Care Act, by expanding coverage, was supposed to “get rid of uncompensated care” so there would be less need for the special payments. While Democrats assailed the president’s budget, Mr. Azar relished the opportunity to attack Democrats’ proposals to establish a single-payer health care system billed as Medicare for all. Those proposals could eliminate coverage provided to more than 20 million people through private Medicare Advantage plans and to more than 155 million people through employer-sponsored health plans, he said. But Mr. Azar found himself on defense on another issue aside from the president’s budget: immigration. He said he was doing his best to care for migrant children who had illegally entered the United States, were separated from their parents and are being held in shelters for which his department is responsible. He said he was not aware of the “zero tolerance” immigration policy before it was publicly announced in April 2018 by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. If he had known about the policy, Mr. Azar said, “I could have raised objections and concerns.” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of the subcommittee, summarized the case against the president’s budget. “The Trump administration,” she said, “has taken a hatchet to every part of our health care system, undermining the Affordable Care Act, proposing to fundamentally restructure Medicaid and slashing Medicare. This budget proposes to continue that sabotage.”", "id": "5c884c9649f0eacbf105cbc0", "date": "2019-03-13T00:18:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In Utah and Idaho, G.O.P. Looks to Curb Medicaid Expansions That Voters Approved", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The voters of Utah and Idaho, two deeply Republican states, defied the will of their political leaders in November and voted to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act. Now those leaders are striking back, moving to roll back the expansions — with encouragement, they say, from the Trump administration. Utah’s ballot measure, approved with support from 53 percent of voters, would expand Medicaid to cover people with incomes up to 138 percent of the poverty level — up to about $16,750 a year for an individual — and pay the state’s share with a small increase of the sales tax. Under the ballot initiative, 150,000 people are expected to gain coverage, starting April 1. In Idaho, more than 60 percent of voters supported a ballot measure to expand Medicaid. But in both states, the Republican Legislatures are looking for ways to roll back those votes. The bill barreling through the Utah Legislature was “an effort to override the will of the people,” said Matthew Slonaker, the executive director of the Utah Health Policy Project, a nonprofit group that supported the full expansion of Medicaid. Utah lawmakers, worried that the sales tax increase might not fully cover the costs, are rushing through a bill that would limit the expansion of Medicaid to people with incomes less than or equal to the poverty level, about $12,140 for an individual. State officials say that the bill, which is estimated to cover 90,000 people, could be on the desk of Gov. Gary R. Herbert, a Republican, in a week or two. Idaho lawmakers are considering restrictions, such as work requirements, to limit the reach of the voters’ will. In both cases, state Republicans may need Washington’s help. Utah’s legislative plan is contingent on federal approval of a waiver that would allow the state to get extra federal money without the full expansion of Medicaid envisioned in the Affordable Care Act. The federal government and the states have historically shared the costs of Medicaid, with the federal government paying a larger share in states with low per capita income. In Utah, the federal government pays about 70 percent of what Medicaid spends on health care. To date, the federal government has not approved such proposals — even though some Trump administration officials want to allow the “partial expansion” of Medicaid as a way to head off full expansion in additional states, which could be more expensive for the federal government. Paul Edwards, a deputy chief of staff for Mr. Herbert, said that the governor and other state officials had had many conversations with Trump administration officials, including people at the White House and at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. “The governor came away quite encouraged,” Mr. Edwards said. “The most important conversations have been on the telephone between Governor Herbert and Seema Verma,” the administrator of the federal Medicaid agency. “We are in close contact with C.M.S., and we are encouraged by what we are hearing,” Mr. Edwards said. “But no one has put anything into writing.” The Trump administration has repeatedly promised to provide more “flexibility” for state Medicaid programs, but a federal health official declined to characterize the discussions with Utah. Utah’s bill would put limits on the growth of per capita costs in the Medicaid program and would freeze enrollment if the cost of the Medicaid expansion was projected to exceed the amount of money provided in appropriations by the Legislature, restrictions “outside the spirit” of the ballot initiative, Mr. Slonaker said. The bill also says that Utah will seek federal permission to impose work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries, like those approved by the Trump administration in several other states. The Utah Medicaid program now covers parents with dependent children in households with incomes up to 60 percent of the poverty level. Adults without dependent children are generally ineligible, with a few exceptions. People with incomes from 100 percent to 400 percent of the poverty level can obtain subsidies in the form of tax credits to help them pay premiums for private insurance in the federal marketplace. One of Utah’s main goals is to eliminate a gap in coverage. Many poor people are now eligible for neither Medicaid nor subsidized private insurance. State Representative James A. Dunnigan, a Republican who is leading efforts to replace the ballot initiative, said the revenue provided by the sales tax increase would not be adequate to pay the state’s share of the cost of a full Medicaid expansion after two years. The fiscal mismatch will be “a runaway train wreck,” Mr. Dunnigan said in an interview. “We balance our budget here every year. We value our triple-A bond rating and our reputation as one of the nation’s best managed states.” People with incomes of 100 percent to 138 percent of the poverty level will still be able to get subsidies for private coverage in the insurance exchange, he said. Mr. Dunnigan said he, too, had been encouraged by his discussions with the Trump administration. “I would not be pursuing this unless I thought there was a high likelihood that the federal government will approve it,” he said. If President Trump approves Utah’s request for enhanced federal matching payments with a partial expansion of Medicaid, other states are sure to press similar requests. Arkansas, for example, expanded Medicaid to 138 percent of the poverty level in 2014. But it has requested federal permission to roll back coverage to 100 percent of the poverty level. Massachusetts, concerned about the cost of its expanded Medicaid program, has also asked for permission to reduce eligibility for certain adults to 100 percent of the poverty level, saying it would be better for them to obtain subsidized commercial insurance.    ", "id": "5c58bbfe3a125f5075c07fbf", "date": "2019-02-04T22:25:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Medicaid Expansion Fight Delaying Work on Next Kansas Budget", "full_text": " TOPEKA, Kan. — A legislative fight over expanding Medicaid in Kansas is delaying approval of the state's next annual budget. Some top GOP lawmakers are conceding that expansion could pass. Expansion is a priority for Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly and has bipartisan support in the Republican-controlled Legislature. However, opponents are hoping for time to develop a smaller program than Kelly wants with a work requirement and other restrictions she opposes. Expansion became a sticking point in negotiations between the House and Senate on budget issues. It caused them to put off votes until May on any part of the budget for the fiscal year beginning in July. Expansion costs are hotly debated, but the disagreement in budget talks is over how much to tie Kelly's hands in pursuing expansion this year.", "id": "5caf706249f0eacbf1f82dd6", "date": "2019-04-11T16:49:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "$3.4 Million Medicaid Fraud Inquiry Hovers Over Nursing Home Where Comatose Woman Was Raped and Had Baby", "full_text": " State investigators in Arizona are examining $3.4 million in possible Medicaid fraud at the parent company of a Phoenix nursing center where a woman in a vegetative state was raped and gave birth to a boy in December, according to court records. The inquiry into the company, Hacienda HealthCare, began in 2016, when investigators at the health agency that manages the state’s Medicaid program started asking questions about Hacienda’s organizational and accounting structure. Investigators wanted to know whether Hacienda executives improperly shifted overhead expenses in the company to a subsidiary at the same location that then overcharged the state’s Medicaid program. Investigators with the inspector general’s office of the state health agency, the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, have told Hacienda that $3.4 million in Medicaid payments to the company, for expenses from July 2013 to June 2014, appears suspicious and potentially fraudulent. Nearly three years after the inquiry began, the state and the company are still locked in a legal battle. Hacienda officials have refused to turn over thousands of pages of internal financial documents sought by the state in multiple subpoenas, arguing that the requests are burdensome and beyond the state’s investigative scope. The state has said the investigation cannot be completed without them. In an effort to force Hacienda to comply with the subpoenas, the state health agency sued the company in 2017 in Maricopa County Superior Court. A judge ruled in the state’s favor but Hacienda appealed, which is where the case stands today in the Arizona Court of Appeals. “We can confirm that the office does have an open investigation into Hacienda related to fraud, waste and abuse,” Heidi Capriotti, a spokeswoman for the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, said. “As part of that investigation, A.H.C.C.C.S. requested a variety of Hacienda’s financial records, and sought enforcement of its administrative subpoena when Hacienda refused to comply with the request.” Hacienda said in a statement on Friday: “At every step in the process, Hacienda has strenuously denied any and all allegations of overpayment. The company has produced a voluminous set of records to the investigating agency meant to prove that no such overpayments occurred. Most importantly, this lawsuit has nothing to do with quality of care issues.” In earlier court filings, the company said that it had used the same “cost-effective management structure” since 2001 and that this structure had been approved by independent auditors and was not questioned by state regulators until the 2016 investigation. The company said it had turned over more than 16,000 pages of documents to the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System but had resisted the agency’s other requests. “A.H.C.C.C.S. exceeded its authority, and the superior court’s order enforcing the subpoena should be vacated,” lawyers for the company wrote in the appeal. While that investigation continues, detectives with the Phoenix Police Department recently opened a criminal investigation at a nursing home operated by Hacienda HealthCare after a 29-year-old woman who has been in a coma nearly her entire life gave birth to a boy there on Dec. 29. The two investigations have brought intense national scrutiny on Hacienda, Arizona’s largest privately operated long-term nursing company for people with developmental disabilities. People in its care have a range of intellectual and physical disabilities. In recent years, Hacienda has also been investigated by the Arizona Department of Health Services over the treatment of its patients. In 2013, the agency found that a male employee at the nursing home being investigated, the Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, had made sexually explicit remarks to patients, including telling a resident that his penis was erect. In 2017, investigators reported that employees freely walked in on patients while they were naked and showering. The woman at the center of the police investigation has been at Hacienda since she was 3. She cannot move on her own, cannot communicate and requires total supervision, according to health records obtained by The New York Times. The San Carlos Apache Tribe, whose reservation is about 100 miles east of Phoenix, said the woman was an “enrolled member” of the tribe. The tribe’s chairman and her mother, who was granted permanent guardianship in 2009, have not returned calls seeking comment. On Friday, the police released a frantic 911 call from the Hacienda nursing center when the woman went into labor on Dec. 29. The caller said no one knew that the woman had been pregnant. Both the mother and the baby were recovering at a Phoenix hospital, the police said this week. “She was not in a position to give consent to any of this,” Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a police spokesman, said on Wednesday. “This was a helpless victim who was sexually assaulted.” Since the Phoenix police announced their investigation a week ago, detectives have collected the DNA of male employees at Hacienda; the state dispatched health inspectors to check on the other patients there; and the company’s longtime chief executive, Bill Timmons, resigned. Over nearly three decades, Mr. Timmons had built Hacienda into a major player in long-term health care in Arizona. The company says it operates more than 40 programs through its subsidiaries, which provide services to more than 2,000 people every year. The Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, which is one of those subsidiaries, has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records. Most of the subsidiaries operate out of the same property, about six miles south of downtown Phoenix, and share the same directors and executives. From 2009 to last October, Hacienda received at least $6.7 million from the state in Medicaid funding and other money, according to public records. In his position at Hacienda, Mr. Timmons was well compensated over the past decade, according to the company’s financial filings. His total pay doubled from 2008 to 2017, when he received $674,212 in salary and other compensation. But he resigned abruptly on Monday after reports of the police investigation became public, the company announced. Mr. Timmons had been at the center of the legal wrangling between Hacienda and the state, and he had fiercely defended the company’s corporate structure as legal and above board. When Mr. Timmons resigned, Gary Orman, the executive vice president of the company’s board, said Hacienda would “accept nothing less than a full accounting of this absolutely horrifying situation.”   ", "id": "5c38f1123a125f5075c03fb7", "date": "2019-01-11T19:39:57+0000"}]