[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Dancing", "full_text": " letter A reader suggests that those who fault the new congresswoman for the dancing video might actually be threatened by her. To the Editor: Re “Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Dancing Video Was Meant as a Smear, but It Backfired” (news article, nytimes.com, Jan. 4): For all the old, conservative, resentful white men and their enablers who have never had their power and influence seriously challenged (especially by a woman), the election of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York — a young, well-educated, passionate woman of color — must be as frightening as it is profoundly disturbing. And as the video of her dancing reveals, it turns out that she’s also a playful, charismatic, imaginative woman with a beautiful smile who knows how to laugh and have fun. No wonder they feel threatened (and perhaps a bit envious). Deborah LiebersonCambridge, Mass.", "id": "5c339eeb3a125f5075c03357", "date": "2019-01-07T18:48:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Won the Cohen Hearing", "full_text": " Too many representatives chose to bloviate instead of interrogate — except for one. Ms. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society. On Wednesday, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s one-time personal lawyer and “fixer,” testified in front of the House Oversight and Reform Committee about what he says are a variety of shady practices he participated in when working for the president. People around the country awaited riveting testimony, some going so far as to join “watch parties” in bars.  But like so many congressional hearings, the fireworks were quick to flame out. Even with the tantalizing opportunity to grill Mr. Cohen on the myriad ways his former boss most likely sought to evade the law and avoid his creditors, many members of the committee, from both parties, could not resist their usual grandstanding.  Consider the line of questioning from Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. She asked Mr. Cohen a series of specific questions about how Mr. Trump had handled insurance claims and whether he had provided accurate information to various companies. “To your knowledge,” she asked, “did Donald Trump ever provide inflated assets to an insurance company?” He had.  She asked whether Mr. Trump had tried to reduce his local taxes by undervaluing his assets. Mr. Cohen confirmed that the president had also done that. “You deflate the value of the asset and then you put in a request to the tax department for a deduction,” Mr. Cohen said, explaining the practice. These were the sort of questions, and answers, the committee was supposed to elicit. Somehow, only the newer members got the memo. [Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s weekly newsletter.] Ms. Ocasio-Cortez continued, asking, “Do you think we need to review financial statements and tax returns in order to compare them?” She pressed Mr. Cohen for the names of others who would be able to corroborate the testimony or provide documents to support the charges. In response, Mr. Cohen listed the executives Allen Weisselberg, Ron Lieberman and Matthew Calamari — names that, thanks in part to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, we will probably hear more about in the coming months. These questions were not random, but, rather, well thought out. Like a good prosecutor, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was establishing the factual basis for further committee investigation. She asked one question at a time, avoided long-winded speeches on why she was asking the question, and listened carefully to his answer, which gave her the basis for a follow-up inquiry. As a result, Mr. Cohen gave specific answers about Mr. Trump’s shady practices, along with a road map for how to find out more. Mr. Cohen began his testimony calling Mr. Trump a “con man and a cheat”; In just five minutes, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez actually helped him lay out the facts to substantiate those charges.  Unfortunately, too few of her colleagues followed suit. In his testimony, Mr. Cohen claimed numerous ethical breaches and criminal acts on the part of the president, many for which Mr. Cohen himself apparently served as main actor. He spoke of illegal campaign payoffs, rigging of electoral polls, threatening people who had crossed the president, possible witness tampering, and even falsifying financial records. He spoke of conduct in and out of office that would cross even the most generous reading of ethical and legal boundaries. All of these areas offered fruitful avenues for exploration. But instead of asking probing questions and eliciting damning evidence from Mr. Cohen, too many committee members chose to make a speech. Jeffrey Toobin of The New Yorker tweeted in frustration, “Bipartisan incompetence in the questioning at #cohen hearing. All they do is make speeches, and fail to listen to answers or follow up.” He then tweeted sample follow-up questions, hoping desperately that someone might just try. He did give credit to several members who understand the art of questioning, including Representatives Katie Hill and Jackie Speier. But it is shocking how few members actually understand the basic function of a hearing — or chose to ignore collective goals in favor of showboating.  As someone who has worked on the Hill and as a nonprofit advocate, I am accustomed to the frustration of opportunities lost, of questions not asked, or of witnesses who are allowed to get away without really answering a question. Often the stakes are low and so the cost is not so great.  But as Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings’s outstanding closing remarks made clear, what we face now as a nation is so consequential, as the president faces multiple inquiries about possible collusion with a foreign power, that we need more from members of Congress. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has many followers on social media. I hope her colleagues will start to follow her example in the hearing room. Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c77d39d49f0eacbf105aa25", "date": "2019-02-28T12:25:40+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "N.Y. Today: The Ocasio-Cortez Effect", "full_text": " New York Today  [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.] It’s Tuesday. How much would you pay for the Knicks? The team’s owner, James Dolan, is reportedly looking for a buyer. Weather: Bright, chilly and dry today. Tomorrow, we could see afternoon snow turn to rain by night. Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 6 (Ash Wednesday). Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unseated a 10-term congressional incumbent last year, arguing it was time for more progressive policies and diverse representation. It worked. And by next year, New York City may be the epicenter of Ocasio-Cortez-like campaigns for the House of Representatives, aimed at incumbents. “We are trying to elect more Alexandrias,” said the head of the Justice Democrats, a group that was instrumental in Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. [Read about the Ocasio-Cortez effect on the 2020 primaries.] Here’s a snapshot of the scene in New York: Representative Thomas Suozzi, Third District (Long Island, Queens) Potential challenger: Robert Zimmerman, a Democratic National Committee member Mr. Suozzi said he supported “some physical structures” on the United States border with Mexico. Mr. Zimmerman said Mr. Suozzi did “not stand up for mainstream Democratic principles.” Representative Kathleen Rice, Fourth District (Long Island) Potential challenger: Kevan Abrahams, a Nassau County legislator Ms. Rice opposed Representative Nancy Pelosi’s election as House speaker and has not embraced the “Green New Deal,” a progressive proposal to fight climate change. Mr. Abrahams narrowly lost to Ms. Rice in 2014. Representative Yvette Clarke, Ninth District (Brooklyn) Potential challenger: Adem Bunkeddeko Ms. Clarke narrowly defeated Mr. Bunkeddeko in 2018, when he argued that she was insufficiently progressive. She said that she was better prepared now to serve constituents and get her message out. Representative Jerrold Nadler, 10th District (Manhattan, Brooklyn) Potential challenger: Lindsey Boylan, a former adviser to the governor Mr. Nadler, 71, has been in Congress for 27 years. Ms. Boylan said, “I just can’t justify having my daughter watch me sit on the sidelines.” Also, Mr. Nadler, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, has resisted opening a formal impeachment inquiry for President Trump. Now the congressman is the target of a $200,000 ad blitz from a California billionaire who supports impeachment. Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, 12th District (Manhattan, Queens) Potential challenger: Suraj Patel Ms. Maloney, 71, who has been in Congress for 26 years, defeated Mr. Patel last year by a narrower percentage than was customary for her, suggesting vulnerability. Mr. Patel argued that Ms. Maloney had been in office too long and accused her of being “recklessly indifferent to the less privileged.” Representative Jose Serrano, 15th District (Bronx) Potential challenger: City Councilman Ritchie Torres Mr. Serrano, 75, has served in Congress for 29 years. Mr. Torres, 30, is a rising star in progressive circles. In 2015, Newsweek wrote of Mr. Torres, “Some whisper he’ll be the country’s first gay president.” Representative Eliot Engel, 16th District (Bronx, Westchester County) Potential challenger: Andom Ghebreghiorgis Mr. Engel, 72, has been in the House for 31 years. Mr. Ghebreghiorgis, 33, said Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory shows that New Yorkers want “representatives who reflect the changing progressive politics of their communities.” Sunday routine: CNN’s Fareed Zakaria likes running in Riverside Park and at home, and thinks Central Park is “so overrun with tourists you feel like you’re in Disneyland.” A devastating loss, then charges: A mother whose two children died in a fire pleaded guilty to criminally negligent homicide. Anthony Weiner is out of prison: He moved into a re-entry center to serve the remainder of his sentence for exchanging lewd messages with a minor. Trans soldier denied medication in jail: A jury awarded Jessica Sunderland $355,000 in damages. Why the Amazon deal collapsed: It was fast and caught Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio by surprise. Anti-Semitic crimes: Thirty-six have been reported so far this year, compared with 21 last year. [Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.] The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle. Ama-gone? Not altogether: Amazon’s New York City work force will grow, just not in Long Island City. [New York magazine] Fare beaters: Arrests for fare beating are down, but racial disparities continue. [Daily News]  Pride March: Organizers requested more space, which is making some residents wary. [amNew York] Budding industry: Bodega owners want to sell marijuana when it is legalized. [New York Post] 50 Cent vs. the N.Y.P.D.: The police are investigating whether a top-ranking officer threatened the Queens-born rapper. [Daily News] Decorate baseballs and pennants for Jackie Robinson Day at the Museum of the City of New York. 11 a.m. [Free with museum admission] Learn about plants with scavenger hunts and other activities for families at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden’s Steinhardt Conservatory. 11 a.m. [Free] An open-mic night for musicians and poets at Sister’s Uptown Bookstore & Cultural Center in Washington Heights. 7 p.m. [$7 suggested donation] A history lesson and beer tasting with two scientists at the American Museum of Natural History. 6:30 p.m. [$20] The Food Almanac discusses the connections between immigration and the food system at Project Farmhouse near Union Square. 6 p.m. [$15] — Elisha Brown   Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages. Here’s something you probably don’t know about Amy Klobuchar, the Minnesota senator and Democratic presidential candidate: Her daughter works at the New York City Council. The daughter, Abigail Bessler, is the legislative director for Councilman Keith Powers of Manhattan’s East Side. But this is 2019, and there are many candidates with roots in New York. So, is Mr. Powers supporting Ms. Bessler’s mother for president? He politely sidestepped the question, and instead praised his staff member and the senator. “From what I know about Amy Klobuchar, Abigail certainly shares her character and intellect,” Mr. Powers said in a statement. Dodge! As for Ms. Bessler, it’s clear whom she’s supporting. A Klobuchar campaign spokeswoman sent two statements from Ms. Bessler. The first statement included the phrase “Minnesota Nice” and a funny anecdote about Ms. Bessler’s early days in New York City. The second referred to the “wonderful New Yorkers that I’ve gotten to know” and eagerness “for the rest of the country to get to know” her mother. It’s Tuesday — be nice to your colleagues; their parent may be a boss. Dear Diary: I took the subway home to the Upper East Side after having dinner with some friends. I got off at 86th Street. There is a bank on one of the corners there that is immediately visible when you come up out of the station. As I got to the top step, I noticed a young woman outside the bank who was clearly struggling to use her card to unlock the doors to the A.T.M.s. An older woman with a cane was coming out of the bank. She opened the door from the inside, and then held it so that the younger woman could come in. Rather than thanking the older woman, the younger woman began to berate her for letting someone who might not be a customer into the bank. The older woman smiled. “You’re not from New York, are you?” she said. — Wendy Katkin New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com. We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6bdede3a125f5075c0a5ff", "date": "2019-02-19T10:46:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez Pushes Democrats to the Left, Whether They Like It or Not", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] WASHINGTON — Not so long ago, left-wing activists were dismissed as fringe or even kooky when they pressed for proposals to tax the superrich at 70 percent, to produce all of America’s power through renewable resources or to abolish Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Then along came Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — and her social-media megaphone. In the two months since her election, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has had the uncanny ability for a first-term member of Congress to push the debate inside the Democratic Party sharply to the left, forcing party leaders and 2020 presidential candidates to grapple with issues that some might otherwise prefer to avoid. The potential Democratic field in 2020 is already being quizzed about her (Senator Kamala Harris praised her on “The View”), emulating her digital tactics (Senator Elizabeth Warren held an Instagram chat in her kitchen that looked much like one of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s sessions) and embracing some of her causes. Ms. Warren and Senator Cory Booker, among others, have recently endorsed the idea of a “Green New Deal,” a call to reimagine an environment-first economy that would phase out fossil fuels. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez thrust that issue into the national dialogue after she joined a sit-in protest in the office of then-incoming House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi, in one of her first, rebellious acts in Washington. Her rise has stirred a backlash among some congressional Democrats, who are seeking to constrain her anti-establishment streak and fear her more radical ideas could tar the party as socialist. Back home in New York, she has stoked opposition to a deal with Amazon to set up offices in Queens, putting pressure on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio, both Democrats, to justify corporate incentives. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a Bronx-born 29-year-old of Puerto Rican descent, is the youngest congresswoman ever, and Washington veterans say they cannot recall a similar congressional debut. “A bartender from the Bronx has been able to create a litmus test around climate and economic policy for every 2020 Democrat,” said Waleed Shahid, who was one of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s early campaign advisers and is now the communications director for Justice Democrats, a liberal activist group. Far beyond policy, she has emerged as a potent symbol for a diversifying Democratic Party: a young woman of color who is giving as good as she gets in a political system that has rarely rewarded people who look like her. Her mastery of social media has allowed her to connect with audiences who might otherwise be alienated from Washington. Still, her unexpectedly outsize profile could bring perils. Her threats to knock out more moderate Democrats in future primaries in particular seem to have rankled. Some whisper her tweet-first, ask-questions-later mentality reminds them of President Trump. And while she has attracted considerable attention, policymaking in Congress remains a long, slow grind dominated by insiders. Ms. Pelosi, for instance, declined to grant the new climate change committee some of the powers that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had demanded at the sit-in. Many Republicans are downright giddy at the notion that a self-described democratic socialist is driving Democratic policy discussions. Congressional Republicans saw up close the dangers of having the more staunchly right-wing elements of the Tea Party come to define their tenure in the House majority. “Whether Democrats like it or not, Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez is now the face of their party,” said Steven Cheung, a former communications adviser in the Trump White House. Yet Republicans face their own risks if their attacks on her are perceived as sexist or condescending. “Over 200 members voted for Nancy Pelosi today, yet the G.O.P. only booed one: me,” she wrote on Twitter on Jan. 3. “Don’t hate me cause you ain’t me, fellas.” It has already been retweeted nearly 50,000 times. Supporters and rivals alike agree that she has upended the traditional rules of engagement on Capitol Hill with a millennial’s intuitive sense of what sells online — all before she has hung anything on her barren office walls or even found a permanent place to live. In an interview, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez rejected “the general notion of, ‘Oh, you’re here and need to be quiet and keep your head down.’” “For me, especially as a member who won her seat via a primary election against another Democrat, my constituency was telling me the exact opposite thing,” she said. Republicans, she said, fundamentally misunderstand her: “They think I’m just a Tea Party mirror. It’s an easy and convenient way to frame something. But I don’t think it’s the same.” Still, she has fully embraced the radical label — especially if it means pulling the Democratic Party to the left. “I think that it only has ever been radicals that have changed this country,” she told “60 Minutes.” It has all come in a rush: By the end of her full first day as a congresswoman, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had overtaken Ms. Pelosi’s following on Twitter. Her initials and Twitter handle, @AOC, have become shorthand for the phenomenon that is the talk of Capitol Hill. She had a full “60 Minutes” segment devoted to her on her first Sunday as a congresswoman. She was the first lawmaker that MSNBC turned to after Mr. Trump’s first Oval Office address for analysis on what was Rachel Maddow’s most-watched show ever. And she has become a viral internet sensation many times over, including one video of her dancing outside her office that has topped 22 million views across the globe. She’s a draw on the right as much as the left: Fox News spent more than two hours covering her first five days in Congress, according to a tally by Media Matters, the liberal media watchdog group. MSNBC spent 52 minutes and CNN 96 minutes talking about her in that span. (Interest in Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is so intense that even her chief of staff has appeared on CNN — something almost unheard-of in Congress, where 30-second hits on cable are a sought-after commodity for members of Congress themselves, not their aides.) In a recent Instagram chat — live from her kitchen with several thousand fans watching — Ms. Ocasio-Cortez outlined her strategy to “shape the national narrative” while chopping vegetables for an Instant Pot recipe. “In Trump’s America,” she explained, “I’m not a big fan of bipartisanship.” On the environment, she said that her goal was to move the boundaries of debate far enough to the left that a carbon tax would look like the moderate option, compared to “wildly ambitious” direct government intervention imagined in the Green New Deal. Perhaps Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s most talked-about idea, raised on “60 Minutes,” has been that people she called “the tippy tops” — those earning above $10 million — should pay a 70 percent rate on income above that threshold. The remark set off days of debate among economists and pundits, on the right and the left, about tax rates unseen in America in decades but common during the post-World War II era. “I’ve been trying to open up this rhetorical space for many, many years,” said Stephanie Kelton, a former chief economist for Democrats on the Senate Budget Committee. “They used to talk about the Oprah effect,” said Ms. Kelton, now a professor at Stony Brook University. “I think it’s the Ocasio effect at this point.” Julian Castro, the former mayor of San Antonio and federal housing secretary who is running for president, was shown the clip of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s tax comment during an interview with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos — and then went even further than her. “As you know, George, there was a time in this country where the top marginal tax rate was over 90 percent,” Mr. Castro explained. “Even during Reagan’s era in the 1980s it was around 50 percent.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was still glowing about it days later. “It’s so incredible to see,” she said in the interview. “First we had Elizabeth Warren come out and talk about a Green New Deal. Next we have Julian Castro defending marginal tax rates and he basically is saying we’ve had 90 percent-plus in the past. It’s totally changing the conversation.” She has had some stumbles, including sparring with fact checkers after The Washington Post gave her “four Pinocchios” for a false claim about Pentagon spending. “I think that there’s a lot of people more concerned about being precisely, factually, and semantically correct than about being morally right,” she said on “60 Minutes.” She added she seeks to correct and acknowledge her mistakes as she makes them, unlike Mr. Trump. The arc of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s ascent is well known: A former bartender and organizer for Bernie Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, she shocked the political world by ousting Representative Joseph Crowley, who had been in line to someday succeed Ms. Pelosi as the Democratic leader. It was the biggest primary defeat for a Democrat in the nation in 2018. In the days after that primary victory, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, a likely presidential candidate in 2020, became the first senator to join Ms. Ocasio-Cortez in her call to “abolish ICE,” the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. “She absolutely does have the ability to put issues on the map,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal, a Seattle-area Democrat and a leader of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. “It’s not that there haven’t been champions of these issues before. But when you’ve got 2.1 million Twitter followers and a press that will cover anything you say, it’s a huge opportunity for us.” The sheer brightness of her star has evoked more than a few eye rolls among House institutionalists. Most colleagues do not know quite what to make of her just yet. “I love Alexandria Ocasio. I saw her in her ‘60 Minutes’ interview. I thought she was great,” said Representative Adriano Espaillat, a 64-year-old Democrat from a neighboring district that includes part of the Bronx. “She is like one of our daughters. You know, she could be my daughter, one of anybody’s children. She’s an adult, obviously. But you know I love her. She’s sharp, has a great smile, intelligent, is liberal, progressive. I think she has great ideas, bold ideas.” For all her focus on what she called “outside-inside” organizing, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez does seek power inside the Capitol. She raised her hand for a slot on the powerful Ways and Means Committee, though no freshmen got a seat on that panel. She has since secured the backing of the New York delegation for a spot on the Financial Services Committee, which would be a notable perch for a politician who has railed against the grip of money in politics generally, and Wall Street in particular. But when it comes to navigating internal House dynamics, her decision to support an effort by Justice Democrats to recruit Democratic primary challengers in 2020 — virtually unheard-of in the cordial Capitol corridors — has left colleagues unnerved and less than trusting. She did push back against a report in Politico that she was recruiting a challenger to Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the highest-ranking New York Democrat in House leadership. Asked about Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s splashy entrance into Congress, Mr. Jeffries instead went through the names of every other incoming New York member, listing her last. “I don’t think singling out one over the other is the appropriate thing for me to do, at least at this moment,” Mr. Jeffries said as he left a recent gathering of the New York Democratic delegation that she also attended. As for the primary-challenge matter, he said he and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez had not spoken about it. “I’ve said hello,” Mr. Jeffries said. “We haven’t talked about any particular issue beyond the logistics of her arrival into the United States Congress.” Follow Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @ShaneGoldmacher     ", "id": "5c3b645b3a125f5075c0428f", "date": "2019-01-13T16:16:24+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Times Square Billboard Hits Ocasio-Cortez on Amazon. She Hits Back.", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Probably the last thing that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez needs is a billboard to get her more attention or notoriety. But there it was, on 42nd Street in Times Square, a digital attack ad that blamed the freshman Democratic congresswoman for Amazon’s decision to pull out of New York, taking with it 25,000 promised jobs. “Thanks for Nothing, AOC!” the ad read, using Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s initials that became ubiquitous even before she officially set foot in Congress. The ad was paid for by a Texas-based group called the Job Creators Network. In the past, tax records show that the Mercer Family Foundation has funded what appears to be a related group, the Job Creators Alliance, also based in Addison, Tex. The company asserted on its website that Amazon only decided to leave “once opposition from Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, along with other anti-business politicians, ramped up.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez sought to specifically link the ad to the family of Robert Mercer, the financier who had given away millions to Republican and conservative causes and whose daughter, Rebekah, was a key player in the 2016 campaign of President Trump. “Few things effectively communicate the power we’ve built in fighting dark money & anti-worker policies like billionaire-funded groups blowing tons of cash on wack billboards (this one is funded by the Mercers),” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Twitter. The billboard seemed best positioned to reach tourists, sitting directly above Ripley’s Believe It or Not! and adjacent to Madame Tussauds, the celebrity wax shrine where Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary, was on hand last year to unveil a likeness of Melania Trump. The billboard was, however, cheered by Laura Ingraham, the conservative commentator. “Check out the sign in Times Sq.!” she wrote in a Twitter post that had been retweeted nearly 10,000 times. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez responded by using a reference to Michael Scott, the character played by Steve Carell in “The Office.” “Billionaires paying to put up anti-progressive propaganda in Times Square is like the obscenely rich version of the scene where Michael Scott points to the Bubba Gump and saying ‘This is it, this is the heart of civilization, right here,’” she wrote on Twitter. The Job Creators Network’s website said the ad would run for a week. But it was not visible on Thursday afternoon, when a camera for CNBC was trained on the billboard for an hour, as it displayed different content. “The billboard went up Wednesday. The contract is scheduled for one week at a cost of about $4,000,” Elaine Parker, a spokeswoman for Job Creators Network, said in an email. After Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s tweets, the company said it bought space on two more billboards, at Seventh Avenue and 42nd Street. “Hey AOC, Saw your wack tweet,” read one. The other: “This billboard cost about $4,000. But you cost NY 25,000 jobs and $4,000,000,000 in annual lost wages. Ouch.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was an outspoken opponent of the Amazon deal, which would have located a new corporate campus near her Queens and Bronx district. But she was hardly a leading organizer on the ground, where local officials and left-leaning activists pushed for the company to make additional concessions or leave. The deal had been negotiated by two of New York’s leading Democrats, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, but they were unable to quell a progressive rebellion that sufficiently unnerved executives at one of the world’s biggest corporations. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez herself has said her impact has been overstated. “Grassroots community members led + organized the whole effort. Wouldn’t have happened if they weren’t there,” she said in another tweet. Follow Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @ShaneGoldmacher     ", "id": "5c6f19573a125f5075c0ae29", "date": "2019-02-21T21:32:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez Is Finding a New Model for How to Work in Public", "full_text": " Screenland The level of attention surrounding Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is, by any measure, extraordinary, bordering on Kardashian-grade. This goes for both the positive and the negative attention, each of which can feel more like a self-serving projection than an accurate representation of who Ocasio-Cortez is or what she’s doing. The congresswoman has become a handy and versatile symbol — the representative representative. For the leftward and younger wings of the Democratic Party, she serves as a figurehead and a hero; for conservative media outlets, as reliable outrage bait. Everyone seems willing to let her be a lightning rod — including, notably, Ocasio-Cortez herself. It’s not easy to absorb so much static. “At first, it was really, really, really hard,” she recently told Vanity Fair. “I felt like I was being physically ripped apart in those first two to three months.” But Ocasio-Cortez’s own acknowledgment of the attention, which she has incorporated into her public persona as a kind of running metacommentary on fame, spin and bias, is also a handy way to channel it in useful directions. Take, for instance, the lowly clip of routine congressional testimony — from a House Committee on Oversight and Reform hearing on H.R. 1, a bill involving campaign finance and ethics rules — that recently went viral, generating well over 40 million views. There was nothing especially dramatic about it: no bombshell revelations, no combative exchanges, no emotional outbursts. On the contrary, Ocasio-Cortez was calm, upbeat and pleasant, framing her questions as a kind of game — a “lightning round” on the limits of campaign-finance rules. Casting herself as a hypothetical villain and enlisting witnesses as her co-conspirators, she described a legislative system reduced by special interests to a corrupt, zero-sum competition. “I’m gonna be the bad guy,” she says in the video. “Which I’m sure half the room would agree with anyway. And I want to get away with as much bad things as possible, ideally to enrich myself and advance my interests, even if that means putting my interests ahead of the American people.” Criticism of Ocasio-Cortez has often come wrapped in dismissiveness; early attacks, especially, hinged on the ease with which Americans might be persuaded to see a young woman and political outsider as unserious, unprepared, even vapid. At the start of this year, a clip of her dancing in the style of “The Breakfast Club” — taken from a video made when she was an undergraduate — was circulated gleefully, as if an image of her younger self dancing would undermine her legitimacy as a legislator. Until quite recently, the protocol for a woman subjected to such attacks was to rise above them, brushing off all the negative attention (and even some of the positive), projecting an air of being occupied in stolid, competent work. But Ocasio-Cortez has, thus far, found more interesting reactions. Her response to the circulation of that video wasn’t to strike a more mature pose; it was to have herself filmed, as a legislator, dancing in front of her office. Part of what makes her congressional questioning on H.R. 1 interesting is that she doesn’t try to play down the qualities that are used to mock or attack her. If anything, she harnesses them for rhetorical effect. Being dismissed as young, inexperienced and female turns out to be something she’s quite good at. It’s not that the mode of her questioning is especially unusual. She wants to demonstrate how easy it can be, under current law, for unscrupulous people to hijack the legislative process, and like countless legislators and attorneys before her, she uses friendly witnesses to make the argument for her. She asks lengthy, essentially rhetorical questions and occasionally prompts the experts to confirm that what she’s saying is correct. This method is familiar enough to anyone who has ever watched television, as are its rhetorical flourishes — feigned naïveté, false modesty, hand-wringing solemnity and other devices, all enacted for the benefit of the audience. And yet the tone here is completely different. Ocasio-Cortez doesn’t pretend to take the moral high ground or strive for a clinical, prosecutorial demeanor. She has fun with it. At least one reason this video has been watched more than 40 million times is that she has opted for the pretense of a “game,” embracing youthful speech and a breezy, chipper tone: So, green light for hush money. I can do all sorts of terrible things. It’s totally legal right now for me to pay people off, and that is considered speech. That money is considered speech. So I use my special-interest, dark-money-funded campaign to pay off folks that I need to pay off and get elected. So now I’m elected. Now I’m in. I’ve got the power to draft, lobby and shape the laws that govern the United States of America. Fabulous. It’s a strange artifact of Ocasio-Cortez’s attention-magnetism that her hypotheticals about corruption might have ended up garnering more attention and emotion than the corruption itself. But if there’s anything she has shown amazing skill at, it’s knowing how to manage and channel that attention, to let the air out of it and turn it back on whoever paid it. It makes the old model — of keeping your head down and rising above — seem distinctly old. Amid the furious echo chambers of modern media, failing to acknowledge the most absurd image of yourself — failing to laugh at it or own it or hit back at it online — can hurt more than it helps. A caricature of Hillary Clinton, for instance, seemed to obscure her entirely, feeding on her silence. There aren’t too many models for how a woman, in particular, can respond to attacks and antipathy without being looked on as fragile, or shrill, or weak, or vain, or full of grievance. Ocasio-Cortez is finding one. Today’s fray is too vicious to stay above; it is too handy with Photoshop and social media, too full of noise, too undivided between legitimate sources and illegitimate ones. It’s a mosh pit. There is no dignified attending to your own business in a mosh pit. You keep your elbows ready, and you dance. Carina Chocano is the author of “You Play the Girl” and a contributing writer for the magazine. Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.", "id": "5c92017449f0eacbf105e048", "date": "2019-03-20T09:00:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Top ‘Villain’ in Amazon Pullout, Poll Finds", "full_text": " New York Today  [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.] It’s Tuesday. Tomorrow, spring officially begins. Weather: Grab the sunglasses. It’ll be sunny today and tomorrow. Temperatures start in the mid-30s, then climb to the upper 40s. Alternate-side parking: In effect until Wednesday (suspended Thursday for Purim). When Amazon announced last month that it was canceling plans to build a major campus in Queens, the company did not directly blame any one person or group. But others have. Governor Cuomo, who with Mayor de Blasio helped negotiate the deal largely in private, blamed the State Senate, where crucial leaders opposed the plan. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who opposed the campus, blamed Amazon for seeking $3 billion in tax breaks and incentives that she said should have been spent elsewhere. Now a poll is offering insight into how the public feels about the deal’s collapse. Over a third of New Yorkers point the finger at Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, according to a Siena College Research Institute survey of 700 voters. Here’s what else you need to know about the poll, which was released yesterday: The deal was popular across the state: Two-thirds of voters said Amazon’s withdrawal was bad for New York. Sixty-three percent of Democrats and 56 percent of self-identified liberals said the cancellation was bad for New York. Sixty-four percent of New York City voters agreed with them. Blame fell on Ms. Ocasio-Cortez: Thirty-eight percent of voters faulted the congresswoman for the deal’s demise, identifying her as a “villain.” “Local activists in Queens” were labeled villains by 34 percent of voters. In the New York City suburbs, 50 percent of voters blamed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. Upstate, the number was 40 percent; in the five boroughs, it was 29 percent. A spokesman for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez declined to comment on the poll results. What about the governor and mayor? Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio were each seen as a villain by fewer than 30 percent of voters. What about Amazon? The company was blamed by 26 percent of voters. The takeaways: • The progressive base that cheered Ms. Ocasio-Cortez as she railed against the deal was not representative of most voters. “Those closest to a project don’t necessarily reflect the views of a wider audience,” said Steven Greenberg, a pollster with Siena College. (I asked Mr. Greenberg if by “closest” he meant physical proximity, and he replied, “Yes.”) • “Local activists in Queens” were blamed more often for the plan’s demise than the State Senate was. In the suburbs, 39 percent of voters labeled the activists as villains, but only 23 percent labeled the Senate as such. This matters in part because Democrats need to retain suburban seats to hold on to their Senate majority. The poll   was conducted March 10-14 and has a margin of error of 4.2 percentage points. President Trump’s crackdown on undocumented workers has unnerved immigrants and the farmers who rely on them. Only 7 black students got into the most selective public high school in New York City, out of 895 spots. He spent seven years in prison after being convicted of two cellphone robberies. Then a court changed the rules. Can New York’s “Big Ben” block a $20 million penthouse in Lower Manhattan? Three young lawmakers share a progressive vision, and a seven-room apartment in Albany. [Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.] The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle. Citi Bike will extend its valet service. [StreetsBlog] Nurses say they will strike soon at Mount Sinai, Montefiore and NewYork-Presbyterian hospitals. [ABC] The Vessel at Hudson Yards has the right to use the photos and videos you take of it. [Gothamist] The number of high-level jobs in the de Blasio administration that are vacant or being filled with substitutes: 14. [Politico NY] Mark Peters, who was fired from his job as the city’s investigation commissioner by Mr. de Blasio, has been hired by CBS as an urban affairs reporter. [Adweek] In case you missed it: Newark’s mayor said the city was exploring a program for universal basic income. [Star-Ledger] Hear a live version of the “Comedy History 101” podcast with Harmon Leon and Scott Calonico at the PIT Loft in Manhattan. 7 p.m. [$8] The Strand bookstore in Manhattan hosts several authors for “Death Becomes Us,” a discussion about women who kill. 6:30 p.m. [$15] Ring in the Persian New Year at the Fire Jumping Spring Festival at the Firemen’s Memorial Garden in Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free] — Derek Norman Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages. Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed in 1953 for being Soviet spies. It’s a case that some people are still debating and that others have never heard of. And it’s “a New York story,” Richard H. Weisberg, a professor at Cardozo School of Law, said. The couple were tried in the Southern District of New York and buried on Long Island. New Yorkers “had connections to the case — parents, uncles, aunts, grandparents,” Professor Weisberg said. “It’s a story of how a couple that owns a ma-and-pa electronic fix-it store becomes swept up in the web of an investigation,” Professor Weisberg said. “And there are so many unresolved issues, even the guilt and innocence of both Julius and Ethel — who should be seen separately, really in a way — is unclear at the moment.” The case is more than 60 years old, but some at Cardozo say it shouldn’t be forgotten. Today at 4 p.m., the law school will screen a movie about the Rosenbergs called “Daniel,” which the executive producers have described as “inspired” by the case. At 6:30 p.m., an actress in the film, Lindsay Crouse, will participate in a discussion with one of the Rosenbergs’ sons, Robert Meeropol. The discussion will be moderated by Professor Weisberg. Ms. Crouse said the case was long overdue for a re-examination. “One of the reasons I think it’s important for students to know what went on in the Rosenberg case is that this country has almost shunned the case,” she said in an interview. “It’s very upsetting on many levels, and we need to look at it square in the face to learn its lessons.” Barbara Kolson, the co-director of the Fashion, Arts, Media and Entertainment Center at Cardozo, who helped organize the event, said the school’s students “did not know who the Rosenbergs were.” “They also did not know who Roy Cohn was,” she said, referring to one of the prosecutors who was instrumental in the convictions. Mr. Cohn, who died in 1986, had mentored a cadre of influential people, including President Trump and Roger Stone. It’s Tuesday — learn about New York history. Dear Diary: I was walking down York Avenue after a discouraging second day at my first job. Feeling overwhelmed, I was holding back tears as I trudged home through the rain. A few blocks from my apartment, I slowed to a stop in front of a fruit cart. I pretended to scan the contents as I replayed the previous eight hours in my head. The vendor tried to tempt me with cherries and tangerines, but I was lost in my own thoughts. I heard a voice whispering from behind me: “Get the grapes.” I turned to face a woman with gentle features and streaks of gray hair, her body wrapped tightly in a fur coat. “They’re sweet and delicious,” she said. “And you can put them in your pocket and eat them on your way home.” So I did. And they were. — Michael Harmon  Metropolitan Diary was inadvertently left out of the Monday edition of New York Today, so we are publishing two today. Dear Diary: We were apart for seven months. He was in Alabama, at Fort Rucker, and I was at Columbia. We spent three days together while he was on leave. The day before he left, we were on the No. 1. In the twitching subway light, a band swung into our car and seasoned the tight air: One musician kneaded a metallic accordion, and another sang. He smiled — there is a slight gap between his front teeth — and we danced. In the music, the moment felt infinite. I didn’t think about saying goodbye, about the distance from Alabama to New York. I just thought about him, on the No. 1, with me, swinging to the music. The next day he boarded his train at Penn Station. I walked to Times Square, crying and cold, and I caught the No. 1. After two stops, a band swung into the car: It was the one from the day before. I couldn’t help but smile and swing my hips to the music. — Emma O’Leary New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com. We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c90bbbc49f0eacbf105dcfb", "date": "2019-03-19T09:50:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Latest Smear Against Ocasio-Cortez: A Fake Nude Photo", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] It’s important to make this clear from the start: They weren’t her feet. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat from New York whose outspokenness and progressive views have made her a target of conservatives, lashed out at the right-wing news site The Daily Caller after it posted an article on Monday showing a photo that had been falsely described as a nude selfie of the congresswoman with an emphasis on her feet. It was fake foot news. Confused yet? Here’s what happened. A photo that was apparently taken by a woman in a bathtub, showing her from the shins down, had been making the rounds on social media. A reflection of more of the woman’s body can be seen in the faucet. This led people to describe the photo as a nude selfie. The Daily Caller acknowledged the fake in its story but not in its headline: “Here’s the Photo Some People Described as a Nude Selfie of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.” The site has since given its article a new headline (and, in what it said was an editing error, a new URL that resulted in original links to the story breaking). The photo was only the most recent attempt to sully the reputation of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a rising star on the left who, at 29, is the youngest woman ever elected to the House of Representatives. Last week, before Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was sworn in, video surfaced of her dancing on a rooftop in college, in a leak that was widely viewed as an effort to embarrass her. (It didn’t work.) Before that, conservatives criticized her clothes, the home in which she grew up and the nickname she went by in high school. In every instance, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has fired back on Twitter and elsewhere, seemingly generating more good will from her supporters in the process. On Wednesday, she criticized The Daily Caller’s original headline for failing to note that the photo was not of her. She also called the outlet’s behavior “completely disgusting.” While The Daily Caller’s headline, strictly speaking, may not have been inaccurate, it was misleading. The photo in question shows a woman’s bare legs and feet in a bath with overlaid text claiming it was posted on Instagram by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. It had been circulating for weeks on mainstream sites like Twitter as well as parts of 4chan and Reddit often known for their hostility to women. It received wider attention on Sunday after it was posted to Reddit’s popular section Drama with a lewd caption encouraging viewers to look at the reflection in the tub’s faucet, where the photographer’s breasts are visible. The implication was that the photographer was Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. But one Reddit user cross-referenced the photo with known images of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s feet on Wikifeet, a website for foot fetishists, and determined it didn’t match. Some other Reddit users suggested the photo was an altered version of one belonging to Sydney Leathers, a former sexting partner of Mr. Weiner, who retired from Congress in 2011 after a scandal over his online behavior and before facing a similar scandal during his campaign for New York City mayor in 2013. Ms. Leathers confirmed the photo was originally hers on Twitter, where she apologized to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, saying: “I’m sorry creeps are trying to pretend my pics are actually pics of you. Happy to clear that up.” The Daily Caller said on Twitter on Wednesday that it regretted the error and that it “deleted and fixed” the headline once editors noticed it. It also said its article was intended to “inform our audience that a fake image was circulating online.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wasn’t buying it. In a response on Twitter on Thursday, she said the outlet had been posting “hysteric, misrepresentative articles” about her. On Wednesday, The Daily Caller added a correction to its original story, saying the previous headline “made an inaccurate implication.” The headline now clarifies: “Anthony Weiner Mistress Stands Up for AOC After Evil Internet Trolls Spread Fake Nude Photo.” An earlier version of this article misstated the date The Daily Caller added a correction to its article. It was Wednesday, not Thursday. An earlier version of this article also referred imprecisely to The Daily Caller’s response after deciding that its headline was misleading. The site changed the article’s URL, making it inaccessible; it did not take down or unpublish the original article.  ", "id": "5c3795213a125f5075c03c6e", "date": "2019-01-10T18:55:24+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "GOP Group Sorry for Email Calling Ocasio-Cortez 'Terrorist'", "full_text": " DAYTON, Ohio — The president of a college Republican group in Ohio has apologized for a fundraising email that referred to Democratic congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez as a \"domestic terrorist.\" Tom Ferrall is chairman of the Ohio College Republican Federation and a senior at the University of Dayton. He says the email was sent Wednesday without his approval by a third-party fundraising firm he wouldn't name. Ferrall says his organization has severed ties with the firm. He says the email wasn't something he or the organization would ever endorse. Ocasio-Cortez said in a tweet after the email was publicized that such a message \"puts me in danger every time.\" The University of Dayton also said Ferrall improperly used his university mailing address to solicit funds and Ferrall agreed to stop.", "id": "5cb0b31149f0eacbf1f83642", "date": "2019-04-12T15:45:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Justice Democrats Helped Make Ocasio-Cortez. They’re Already Eyeing Their Next Targets.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Less than a month into the 116th Congress, Sean McElwee, the liberal co-founder of Data for Progress, rattled off a list of sitting Democratic House members who should face a primary from the left, his exposition punctuated with dismissive expletives. There was Representative Stephen F. Lynch of Massachusetts, a moderate, perennial primary target who voted against the Affordable Care Act in 2010; Representative Henry Cuellar of Texas, who raised money for a Republican House incumbent last year as a popular Democratic challenger was closing in; Representative Daniel Lipinski, an old-school Chicago-area politician who has voted against gay marriage and tried to sink Obamacare; and Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who has clashed with one of the highest-profile liberal freshmen, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. Mr. McElwee, a pollster and political adviser, has floated all of those names to Justice Democrats, a small grass-roots organization that burst onto the political scene last year after coordinating Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s stunning primary defeat of Joseph Crowley of New York, the No. 4 Democrat in the House at the time. “These are a lot of ideological contests for the soul of the Democratic Party,” Mr. McElwee said. So far, Justice Democrats has publicly confirmed its intent on only one primary challenge — against Mr. Cuellar, who infuriated the left when he raised money for Representative John Carter as the Democratic challenger, M.J. Hegar, was gaining traction. But more are coming, and the organization’s ambitions to replace more centrist Democrats with liberal candidates have inspired other clusters of insurgency — and pushed progressive policies to the forefront of the liberal agenda. The conflicts — both generational and ideological — burst into the open again on Friday when children with the Sunrise Movement, a youth climate-change advocacy group, pressed Senator Dianne Feinstein, a moderate California Democrat, to embrace the so-called Green New Deal in an extended confrontation that instantly went viral. Justice Democrats, built in part by former staff members for Senator Bernie Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, has made some lawmakers uneasy — and invited comparisons to conservative groups that have bedeviled Republican leaders and pulled that party to the right. Democratic lawmakers say their “big tent” party must embrace varying degrees of liberal ideology to match the House districts they hope to represent. “I support the principle of open competition,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and an ardent liberal whom Justice Democrats claims as one of its own. But, Mr. Khanna added: “I’m not going to be spending any of my efforts recruiting, supporting candidates against my colleagues. I’d rather we build and form a consensus.” Waleed Shahid, Justice Democrats’ communications director, said primaries give the most involved, activist voters in solid blue districts the chance to choose what kind of Democrat they want representing them in Congress. “It takes movements like ours to push parties to prioritize what the base wants and what the values of the party are,” Mr. Shahid said. “That is the role of our movement, to give a policy vision for this country to a party that often lacks a clear policy vision.” A spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the campaign arm of House Democrats, said its focus remained on defeating President Trump and expanding the current House majority. (The committee has announced a slate of 32 seats held by Republicans it intends to challenge.) Mr. Cuellar, asked last month about Justice Democrats’ challenge, reminded reporters that this would not be his first round beating back a primary opponent. “What happened to the Democratic Party being a tent?” Mr. Cuellar said as he described a moderate Democratic constituency in his district, which stretches from the Mexican border to the suburbs of San Antonio. “An outside group that thinks they know southwest Texas politics better than I do are going to find out.” Both supporters and opponents of Justice Democrats say that with the 2018 election barely in the rearview mirror, it is too early to assess how primary challenges might disrupt the Democratic field. But in a presidential year, when turnout in the primaries is often much higher than in midterm election seasons, Justice Democrats has the potential to be far more disruptive than it was in 2018, and the group and its allies are in a fighting mood. “We should absolutely be allowed to contest what it means to be a Democrat,” Mr. McElwee said in an interview. “You can’t have a tent that includes both people of color and people who work to undermine the rights and humanity of people of color.” He pointed to Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, who defeated a more progressive Democrat, Tom Perriello, in the primary, only to be consumed in scandal for his use of blackface in the 1980s. Liberal primary challengers are not new to the Democratic Party, but they can be costly. Steve Israel, a retired congressman from New York who once led the campaign committee, recalled instances in which lawmakers delayed contributions to the tight races of their colleagues as they fought off primary challengers in their safe districts. Now, the challenges carry more weight. “It didn’t have the energy and the intensity that it does now,” Mr. Israel said, adding, “Every challenge has to be taken seriously.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez caught Mr. Crowley off guard, but this time, Justice Democrats’ targets will see a challenge coming — although awareness is not necessarily a guarantee for survival. Months after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory, Ayanna S. Pressley, a Boston city councilwoman endorsed by the group, successfully toppled Michael Capuano, a 10-term Massachusetts congressman. Mr. Shahid acknowledged that Justice Democrats, with 12 full-time and part-time staff members, had some missteps to learn from. He said the organization had to learn from “stretching ourselves too thin and not being as laser focused.” He noted that the group would back a smaller group of candidates and focus solely on races in secure Democratic districts. Group members, during a conference call last week, said they had begun reaching out to people to discuss possible campaigns, but had not closed the endorsement window. In 2018, Justice Democrats endorsed 78 candidates and recruited 12 to run for office, serving as a grass-roots political consulting firm and jump-starting campaigns. Out of those 12, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was the only one who won her general election. Six other endorsed candidates — three incumbents and three freshmen — also made it to Congress. All seven are in the House. Many of the group’s candidates challenged races in districts that leaned Republican, and in several cases the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee worked hard to beat them back, worried that a Justice Democrats triumph in the primary would cost the party a potential seat. Lizzie Fletcher, for instance, beat the Justice Democrats candidate, Laura Moser, in a primary in the Houston suburbs, then went on to defeat the Republican incumbent, John Culberson, in a race that may have been far more difficult for her to win as a more liberal candidate. In more Democratic districts, candidates supported by Justice Democrats came up disappointingly short. Marie Newman’s challenge to Mr. Lipinski, backed by some sitting Democratic lawmakers, was seen as a real opportunity to take down a congressman increasingly loathed by his own party. She lost, though Justice Democrats speculates that had her primary been after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s, the momentum would have lifted her to victory. This time around, the organization intends to spend more on fewer candidates and is working to build a larger infrastructure and a bigger fund-raising arm. During the monthly call last week, members outlined a new fellowship program in which people could learn about staffing a campaign and becoming part of a more permanent foundation for candidates’ races. Candidates are required to pledge not to take any corporate political action committee or lobbying money, and are expected to be aligned with Justice Democrats’ platform, which includes abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement, advocating free public colleges and trade schools, and ending the death penalty. Mr. Shahid frequently raises comparisons to, among other movements, the abolitionists in the Civil War-era Republican Party. Eric Foner, a historian and professor emeritus at Columbia University, said the group could learn from them. “You have to play the long game if you don’t command a majority right now,” he said. “I’m not advocating that they be quiet, but if you don’t have a majority, you’re automatically playing the longer game.” Mr. Shahid, Mr. McElwee and their allies argue that they do not need long-game patience. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Representative Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ms. Omar, all Justice Democrats candidates, have already pushed strong climate change measures, higher taxes on the wealthy and support for a Palestinian state into the mainstream debate surrounding Democratic ideals. “Medicare for all,” a tenet of the group’s platform, and the Green New Deal have become critical aspects of the Democratic primary race for president in 2020. Even sitting Democrats have felt pressure to endorse the programs — or, like Ms. Feinstein, have faced viral wrath for appearing to not take the platforms seriously. “We can’t have a 15-year power-building strategy,” Mr. McElwee said. “We have to have power now. We have to have it next election.” Some of the group’s potency stems from the viral might of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and her close ties to the group: Two of her top staff members helped found Justice Democrats, and Mr. Shahid worked on her campaign. And she appeared in an eight-minute video with the organization’s founders that circulated last month, explaining how Justice Democrats propelled her campaign into existence and success. “It’s an uncomfortable feeling to go against the grain, but that’s what we’re here for,” said Corbin Trent, a spokesman for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and a founder of the group. “Hopefully,” he added, “things are getting shook up a little bit.”    ", "id": "5c71696c3a125f5075c0b2c6", "date": "2019-02-23T15:38:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Dancing Video Was Meant as a Smear, but It Backfired", "full_text": " On the eve of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s swearing-in as the youngest woman ever elected to the House of Representatives, video footage from her college days suddenly appeared on the internet. The video showed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, 29, dancing barefoot on a rooftop. If it was meant to be an embarrassing leak, it backfired badly. The dance video — a mash-up of 1980s dance moves from the movie “The Breakfast Club” and the music of “Lisztomania,” by the French band Phoenix — proved to be too endearing to many social media users. Some also saw a right-wing effort to undermine Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a liberal Democrat known as “AOC” among her fans. A Twitter user identified as Richard Burr, a former contestant on “The Great British Bake Off,” wrote: “I love how Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has turned American politics into a live action Footloose. People dancing!? Oh the horror! Where will it end?” [Sign up here for In Her Words, our newsletter about women, gender and society.] Since Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a self-described Puerto Rican “girl from the Bronx,” was elected in New York in November, she has been a target of conservatives and far-right groups. She won political notice after jolting the Democratic establishment by defeating an incumbent congressman to win the primary for New York’s 14th Congressional District in a virtual landslide in June. But her origin story, which saw her go from being a bartender to a lawmaker, has been dismissed by some on the right. Her clothes have come in for particular scrutiny, with a conservative journalist criticizing a fitted coat and jacket she wore as “too nice for a girl who struggles.” The hosts of “Fox and Friends” have mocked her for saying she could not afford an apartment in Washington until she received her salary, disputing the menial savings she cited. She has been something of a lightning rod in her own party as well. Claire McCaskill, the departing Democratic senator from Missouri, called her a “thing” and “a bright shiny new object” in a recent CNN interview. When Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, dressed in white in homage to suffragists and pioneering women in politics, officially took office in Washington on Thursday, Republicans booed her. To which she replied on Twitter: “Over 200 members voted for Nancy Pelosi today, yet the GOP only booed one: me. Don’t hate me cause you ain’t me, fellas.” When the dance video emerged, many internet users wondered what exactly was incriminating about a windswept Ms. Ocasio-Cortez twirling enthusiastically. The footage was from a four-minute-20-second dance video made by Boston University students in 2010, when Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was an undergraduate. An edited version of the original footage surfaced when a Twitter account with the handle @AnonymousQ1776 published it online. “Here is America’s favorite commie know-it-all acting like the clueless nitwit she is,” read the tweet from @AnonymousQ1776, which incorrectly described it as a video from her high school days. The account was deleted before it resurfaced and disappeared again on Saturday. The lyrics speak of watching mania “grow like a riot.” Eric Calvin Baker, who can be seen dancing in the video with Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, wrote on Twitter that the scrutiny on the new lawmaker echoed the “mania” after which the song is named. Many social media users came to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s defense, and the video has inspired memes. Molly Ringwald, one of the stars of “The Breakfast Club,” declared on Twitter that she was “in the club.” Another star of the film, Ally Sheedy, whose dance moves Ms. Ocasio-Cortez imitates in the video, endorsed the tribute. Phoenix, the band whose song plays in the video, sent congratulations. A brand-new Twitter account called “AOC Dances to Every Song” mashed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s joyous dance moves with music as varied as “Gangnam Style,” China’s national anthem and Selena Gomez’s “Kill Em With Kindness.” (But perhaps it aligns best with Lou Bega’s “Mambo No. 5.”) “I figure if I can’t campaign for her in New York, I can make funny videos in Arizona,” Valentina Rodgers, 18, the account’s creator, said. The musician Jonathan Mann overlayed the video with lyrics in support of universal health care, a core campaign issue for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a former community activist, member of the Democratic Socialists of America and Bernie Sanders campaign organizer. And Lawrence Lessig, a professor at Harvard Law School, had been using Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s video among other “Lisztomania” and “Breakfast Club” mash-ups to illustrate the concept of fair use in his lectures, he said in an email on Friday. “That may explain why she seemed so familiar to me when she appeared on the national stage,” he wrote, adding, “Obviously, her coolness long predates her political brilliance.” Alluding to the culture of reckoning that followed the “Me Too” era and the double standards that affect women and men in the public sphere, the comedian and actor Kumail Nanjiani tweeted: “Man sexually assaults women in high school: ‘That was so long ago!’ Woman dances in high school: ‘We must set her ablaze.’” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez addressed the issue herself on Friday, as she often does, on Twitter, writing: “I hear the GOP thinks women dancing are scandalous. Wait till they find out Congresswomen dance too!” With more than 12 million views as of 3 a.m. Saturday, the new video became her most retweeted tweet within hours, according to Nick Pacilio, a communications manager at Twitter. Follow Tiffany May on Twitter: @nytmay.   ", "id": "5c2f87813a125f5075c02dcf", "date": "2019-01-04T16:19:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Leading and Following at the Same Time", "full_text": " The Democratic electorate has shifted sharply to the left, taking many politicians along with it — willingly and unwillingly.  Mr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality. The most active wing of the Democratic Party — the roughly 20 percent of the party’s electorate that votes in primaries and wields disproportionate influence over which issues get prioritized — has moved decisively to the left. With all the attention that is being paid to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib and other new progressive voices in Congress, this may not seem like news, but we are only just beginning to realize the full significance of this shift. The Primaries Project at the Brookings Institution conducted extensive polling of 7,198 Democratic voters in the 2018 primaries and found that 60.4 percent described themselves as liberal, including 26.4 percent who said they were “very liberal.” In its most recent analysis, Gallup found that from 1994 to 2018, the percentage of all Democrats who call themselves liberal more than doubled from 25 percent to 51 percent. Over the same period, the percentage of Democratic moderates and conservatives fell steadily, with the share of moderates dropping from 48 to 34 percent, and of conservatives dropping from 25 to 13 percent. These trends began to accelerate during the administration of George W. Bush and have continued unabated during the Obama and Trump presidencies. In recent years, the internal pressures to hew to the left, driven largely by Democratic primary voters, have steadily gained strength. They include the determination to oppose all things Trump, especially his anti-immigrant policies, his racism and his religious bigotry; the rise of outspoken, well-educated liberals, many of them young; the #MeToo movement and Trump’s disrespect for women; the Occupy movement; the mobilization of anti-establishment voters by Bernie Sanders during the 2016 primaries; and the consistent exodus of more conservative white voters from the Democratic Party, supplanted by more politically liberal minority voters. The anti-establishment faction contributed significantly to the large turnout increases in Democratic primaries last year. Pew found that from 2014 to 2018, turnout in House primaries rose from 13.7 to 19.6 percent of all registered Democrats, in Senate primaries from 16.6 to 22.2 percent and in governor primaries from 17.1 to 24.5 percent. Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at Brookings, agrees with the analysis that core voters and activist leaders within the party are “moving leftward”: Medicare for All, free college, a universal jobs guarantee, a $15 minimum wage, an expansion of the EITC to the entire bottom half, workers on boards of directors, ending ICE, raising marginal tax rates to 70 percent are all big, bold leftist ideas and appear to be gaining currency. These “big, bold leftist ideas” pose a strategic problem for liberals and the Democratic Party, Sawhill, who published “The Forgotten Americans: An Economic Agenda for a Divided Nation” last year, wrote in an email: In my view, it’s a trade-off between exciting the base thereby insuring higher turnout vs. broadening the base to include independents and Republicans that don’t like Trump. Sawhill argues that if the goal of Democrats is victory, as opposed to ideological purity, they must focus on general election swing voters who are not die-hard Democrats. One key Democratic target, Sawhill observes, is the “well-educated, suburban women, many of them Republican, who voted for Democrats in the midterms.” Once Trump is gone, she continued, “they could easily return to their natural home in the Republican Party.” “Over the longer-term,” Sawhill continued, as millennials and minorities become an ever-larger proportion of the party, it will have a natural constituency that supports a new and bolder agenda, but the concentration of those voters in urban areas that are underrepresented in our electoral system will be a continuing drag on the party’s prospects. The extensive support among prospective Democratic presidential candidates for Medicare for All, government-guaranteed jobs and a higher minimum wage reflects the widespread desire in the electorate for greater protection from the vicissitudes of market capitalism — in response to “increasingly incomplete risk protection in an era of dramatic social change,” as the political scientist Jacob Hacker put it in “Privatizing Risk without Privatizing the Welfare State: The Hidden Politics of Social Policy Retrenchment in the United States.” Support for such protections is showing signs of becoming a litmus test for candidates running in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries. Polling by the Pew Research Center shows sharp movement in a progressive direction on key issues among many Democrats. Take liberalized attitudes on immigration as an example. From 2008 to 2018, the percentage of Democrats who said the government should create “a way for immigrants already here illegally to become citizens if the meet certain requirements” grew from 29 to 51 percent, while the share who said “there should be better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws” fell from 21 to 5 percent. Similarly, the percentage of Democrats who agreed with the statement that “racial discrimination is the main reason many blacks can’t get ahead these days” rose from 28 to 64 percent from 2010 to 2017. Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton, warns against putting too much stock in the ascendance of progressive Democrats. In an essay in the American Prospect, Starr argues that there were “two distinct developments” in the 2018 elections: While progressives have gained ground in long-held Democratic areas, more centrist candidates have won the more competitive districts. This second development will limit how far to the left the party can go. The more the party expands into the suburbs, the more dependent it will be on those relatively centrist votes — and that dependence will become a constraint on the policies that Democrats are able to agree on. In addition, while acknowledging the rise of the progressive wing, Starr pointed out that a separate December 2018 Gallup survey found that 54 percent of Democratic voters would prefer their party to become “more moderate,” while 41 percent said they would like the party to become “more liberal.” Along similarly cautionary lines, David Graham wrote in the Atlantic last November: There’s clear leftward movement among Democratic voters on a range of issues, and there are more progressive candidates running than ever. But this doesn’t amount, at least yet, to the socialist groundswell that advocates pine for and critics fear. The actual policy positions, and number of leftist officeholders, will remain limited — at least for now. What happens in 2020 could be more telling. Graham’s conclusion: The Democratic Party is moving left, but it might not be clear quite how far left for two or even six years. The revolution is coming more slowly than its champions hope and its critics fear. Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted in an email that the leftward movement is across the board on policy, ideological identification, and values, but remains furthest left on specific policy. The public movement seems to be strongest on race and gender issues as well as any proposal tied to Trump. Women, according to Grossmann, “are becoming a bigger part of the Democratic electorate and more supportive of women primary candidates.” The 2018 primary elections revealed the deepening strength of an anti-establishment insurgent faction, largely young, white and minority urban voters who turned out in droves in Democratic primaries from Omaha to Tallahassee and from the Bronx to Boston. Michael Capuano, a former mayor of Somerville, Mass. and a ten-term member of the House, learned the hard way how much the Democratic electorate has changed. As mayor in the 1990s, Capuano presided over the gentrification of the once scruffy, working class town. Initially, the city was grateful. When Capuano first won election to Congress in 1998, he owed his victory in the 10-candidate Democratic primary to his hometown. He carried Somerville with 7,852 votes, more than the total vote for all nine opponents, 6,253, while losing to other candidates in Boston, Belmont, Cambridge, Chelsea and Watertown. The impact of gentrification is striking. Somerville had moved from downscale to upscale, not to the level of Brattle Street in Cambridge or Boston’s Beacon Hill, but still many steps up the ladder. In the process, Somerville left Capuano, a white working class Democrat in the mold of Tip O’Neill, behind. In 2018, twenty years after first winning his House seat, Capuano could no longer count on Somerville. Despite his deep roots — his father had been mayor before him — the vote there was a wash. Capuano received 8,423 to 8,286 for his opponent, Ayanna Pressley, an African-American Boston city councilwomen. Pressley swept Cambridge and Boston to crush Capuano, 60,046 to 42,430 districtwide. The same pattern emerged in the widely publicized defeat of Joe Crowley, another 10-term incumbent, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the Democratic primary in a House district that straddles the Bronx and Queens. Steven Romalewski, who runs the mapping service at the CUNY Center for Urban Research, wrote me by email that “Ocasio-Cortez did best in areas such as Astoria/Steinway and Sunnyside, which happen to be more white than other parts of the district,” a point he elaborated upon in a story quoting him posted on The Intercept: You can also see that most of her votes, the strongest vote support, came from areas like Astoria in Queens and Sunnyside in Queens and parts of Jackson Heights that, number one, were not predominantly Hispanic, so they’re a more mixed population, and are areas where — this is kind of a term of art — are in the process of being gentrified, where newer people are moving in, Grace Segers, writing in July on the City & State website, noted that Crowley  fell victim to gentrification and that force may upend expectations in Democratic primaries throughout Manhattan and western Brooklyn and Queens. And the rise of younger voters who are newer to their districts and unattached to incumbents could power insurgent candidates throughout New York City. David Freedlander, writing in Politico Magazine, captured the unanticipated voting patterns that gave rise to Crowley’s defeat. “Ocasio-Cortez’s best precincts,” Freedlander wrote, were  highly educated, whiter and richer than the district as a whole. In those neighborhoods, Ocasio-Cortez clobbered Crowley by 70 percent or more. Conversely, Crowley did best in “the working-class African-American enclave of LeFrak City, where he got more than 60 percent of the vote.” In fact, Crowley pulled some of his best numbers in Ocasio-Cortez’s heavily Latino and African-American neighborhood of Parkchester, in the Bronx — beating her by more than 25 points on her home turf. Jerry Skurnik, a New York political consultant, describes gentrifying communities outside Manhattan as experiencing an influx of “people who really want to live in Greenwich Village but can’t afford to.” This younger, well-educated constituency — predominately but not exclusively white — is hostile to cautious establishment Democrats, especially to older white men, and they are determined to engineer an intraparty cultural and ideological insurgency. The emergence in force in 2018 of these insurgent Democrats grows in part out of the Sanders presidential campaign. Sanders mobilized millions of voters, many of whom did not want the Democrats to nominate a candidate with deep ties to party regulars and to the major donor community. Maps of primary voting patterns in 2016 and 2018 produced by CUNY’s Graduate School of Journalism and the Center for Urban Research show that Sanders beat Clinton in just a handful of New York City neighborhoods. Many of those Sanders neighborhoods are in Ocasio-Cortez’s district and they are the communities that provided her biggest margins of victory. Sanders also carried Somerville in 2016, 12,247 to 9,016, where support for Capuano imploded two years later. If the turnout patterns in the Ocasio-Cortez and Pressley districts are even modestly predictive, the Democratic Party may be changing in significant ways. Tom Kiley, who conducted polling for Capuano, described in an email the shifting makeup of the Democratic electorate in the Seventh District of Massachusetts: Mike did best among older, white, non-college educated Democrats who, for the most part, still described themselves as liberals or moderate liberals. Pressley’s base, Kiley wrote,  was overwhelmingly made up of liberal, college-educated, white voters, especially those under 45 who did not have a history of voting in off-year elections. We were expecting what we considered a robust turnout of 75,000 for the day after Labor Day. In fact it ballooned to over 100,000, largely on the strength of this younger white cohort. While the Boston-Cambridge-Somerville district is far more liberal than the national average, Kiley argued that trends there are likely to be replicated in many regions of the country. “These new voters will have a major impact in the Democratic nomination process in many states,” he wrote: The desire for change in general is huge, and Trump is a powerful accelerant. I have to believe these new voters aren’t going to just retreat after electing new members of Congress; they’ll come out in droves in the primaries next year. And they’ll be voting for change. While primary voters are normally predominately committed partisans with a long history of voting, in the Pressley-Capuano contest more than half of the voters had no record of previous primary voting (24 percent) or were recorded as voting in only one previous primary (29 percent). “If the Pressley campaign was banking on turnout, they certainly cashed in,” wrote Maeve Duggan, research director at the MassINC Polling Group, in an article posted on the website of WBUR, Boston’s NPR news station. “Some 106,556 voters in the 7th Congressional District cast ballots in the 2018 Democratic primary, compared with just 61,725 in 2014,” she continued, “and among the district’s 2018 primary voters, only 37 percent had also voted” in 2014 primaries, according to voter file analysis. Duggan and the MassINC Polling Group analyzed the demographics of the first-time voters and found: They were predominantly women and young people: Fifty-five percent were women, and 66 percent were age 44 or younger (including 34 percent who were 18 to 29 years old). The surge of young voters had a powerful impact, increasing the overall proportion of voters 44 or younger from 25 percent in 2014 to 42 percent in 2018. Combining age and gender, women ages 18 to 29 made up the largest group of new voters, at 20 percent. The new voters, she found, “were more likely to be Asian or Hispanic, compared with the 7th’s repeat voters,” but, she noted, the state’s only majority-minority congressional district “still has a predominantly white voting base.” A July 2018 pre-election survey of voters in the Capuano-Pressley district conducted by WBUR-MassINC makes clear the importance of growing political participation among young voters. The survey found striking generational differences not only on the candidates but on issues. 18-to-29-year-olds favored Pressley over Capuano 41-23 while those over 60 backed Capuano 59-28. Asked if they would be more or less likely to support a candidate who “made abolishing ICE a major priority,” young voters said “more likely” by 48-18 while older voters said it would make them “less likely” by 25-23. Both young and old supported a national health care program, but the margin of support versus oppose was larger (90-2) among young voters than among their elders (71-16). In a postelection analysis of the Ocasio-Cortez-Crowley contest, the Global Strategy Group found: White gentrified liberal areas went big for AOC and surged. Younger, white liberal areas contributed heavily to the margin of Ocasio-Cortez’s victory. Ocasio-Cortez won Hispanics. At the same time, according to their analysis, voters Crowley thought he could depend upon — “expected people, especially older primary voters — did not show up.” Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian whose most recent book is “Building the Great Society: Inside Lyndon Johnson’s White House,” argues that contemporary Democratic progressives are not insurgents, but in full accord with party tradition. In an essay in Politico, “Democrats Aren’t Moving Left. They’re Returning to Their Roots,” Zeitz argued that What pundits today decry as a radical turn in Democratic policy and politics actually finds its antecedents in 1944. With the country fully mobilized for war, President Franklin Roosevelt called for “a second Bill of Rights … an economic Bill of Rights” that would entitle all Americans to a “useful and remunerative job,” “the right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation,” the “right … to a decent home,” “the right to adequate medical care” and the “right to a good education.” Sawhill looks at the ideological shifts in the Democratic electorate less from a historical perspective and more as a response to contemporary economic and social dislocation. Among both conservatives and liberals, Sawhill argued, there is “an intellectual awakening about the flaws of modern capitalism” — a recognition of the failings of “neoliberalism, the idea that a market economy with a few light guardrails is the best way to organize a society.” This intellectual climate may result in greater receptivity among voters to more radical proposals. The willingness of voters to support Democrats who are pushing initiatives like these will depend in large part, however, on the ability of candidates to assure the general electorate that their agenda is beneficial to all and not just to favored liberal constituencies. This will be difficult, given the fact that what is being proposed is a much larger role for government, and that those who are most in need of government support are in the bottom half of the income distribution and disproportionately minority — in a country with a long racist history. As a presidential candidate, Barack Obama was able to overcome this barrier twice, but the challenge should not be minimized. I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall. Thomas B. Edsall has been a contributor to The Times Opinion section since 2011. His column on strategic and demographic trends in American politics appears every Wednesday. He previously covered politics for The Washington Post.   @edsall ", "id": "5c4849363a125f5075c05d51", "date": "2019-01-23T11:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Democratic Promise of Ocasio-Cortez, Warren and Sanders", "full_text": " Economic power corrupts, and absolute economic power corrupts absolutely. Opinion Columnist An old but still potent critique has re-emerged in American politics, one that holds concentrated wealth, and perhaps American capitalism itself, as inimical to the democratic society we want to build. The basic idea holds capitalism as at best an uneasy partner with our democratic values. At worst, it erodes them completely, undermining the social and material basis of republican citizenship as envisioned by the American revolutionaries. Since the start of the new year, this thinking has become especially prominent. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, came out in favor of high marginal tax rates on the rich, arguing last week that “a system that allows billionaires to exist” while others live in extreme poverty is “wrong.” This thinking is also present in a new proposal from Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts to tax the nation’s largest fortunes. The plan, which would impose an annual 2 percent wealth tax on fortunes greater than $50 million and a 3 percent tax on ones greater than $1 billion, is geared as much toward protecting democracy as it is toward raising revenue. It’s an attempt to arrest the many types of economic inequality that threaten political equality — the ability of everyone to have something like an equal say in the democratic process. Most Americans tend not to think of these egalitarian (even anti-capitalist) sentiments as part of the nation’s intellectual heritage. But Warren, Ocasio-Cortez and similarly situated politicians like Bernie Sanders are drawing on influential currents in American political history. Some of those stretch back to the founding era. Despite his own status as a wealthy slaveholder, Thomas Jefferson was wary of extreme disparities of wealth and thought it was incompatible with republican political ideals. Commenting on “the consequences of this enormous inequality producing so much misery to the bulk of mankind” in Europe, he described his position in a famous letter to James Madison in 1785. “Whenever there is in any country, uncultivated lands and unemployed poor, it is clear that the laws of property have been so far extended as to violate natural right. The earth is given as a common stock for man to labor and live on. If, for the encouragement of industry we allow it to be appropriated, we must take care that other employment be furnished to those excluded from the appropriation.” He concluded with a statement of belief: “The small landholders are the most precious part of a state.” More than a century later, labor and agrarian radicals would make a version of this observation vis a vis the unjust and unfair arrangements that trapped farmers and industrial workers. For them, the extreme inequality and labor exploitation of the era was simply incompatible with meaningful democratic citizenship, as it left both hopelessly dependent on the owners of capital, corroding American democracy’s basis in the ideal of equal relations between citizens. “Suddenly, without warning, the shop closes down” or the worker “is discharged and his wage, small at best, is cut off. He has to live, the rent must be paid, the wife and children must have clothing and food, fuel must be provided, and yet he has no job, no wages, and no prospect for getting any,” wrote the socialist leader Eugene Debs in a fiery 1904 pamphlet, “Unionism and Socialism,” which painted a dire picture of capitalist dependency. He continued: “Is a worker in that position free? Is he a citizen? A man? No! He is simply a wage slave, a jobholder, while it lasts, here today and gone tomorrow.” Channeling the founders, Debs held independent material security as a precondition for individual liberty. “No man is free in any just sense who has to rely upon the arbitrary will of another for the opportunity to work,” he had written in 1900. As Debs saw it, if we are deprived as workers, then we cannot truly act as citizens. The National Farmers Alliance and Industrial Union had its heyday some years before Debs entered public life, but its theorists similarly connected ordinary people’s dislocation from the political process to the growing dominance of corporations and concentrated capital. They too saw the answer in a transformation of the American economy that placed the monetary system under democratic control and moved the entire system in a more cooperative direction. This plan, the historian Lawrence Goodwyn wrote, “would have produced a more democratic sharing of the nation’s total economic production. The ‘producing classes,’ no longer quite so systematically deprived of the fruits of their efforts, would have gotten a bit more of the fruits. Hierarchical forms of power and privilege in America would have undergone a significant measure of rearrangement.” The reorganization of economic power would yield a more vibrant democracy, where ordinary people had more power to shape the economic and political institutions that dominated their lives. Neither labor radicals nor agrarian rebels ever attained enough power to enact their ideas in full, although they had a huge influence on the New Deal, which attempted to reconcile the reality of an industrial society with the nation’s democratic values. Likewise, the labor and political radicals of the New Deal period itself helped bring somewhat marginal ideas about political and economic equality to the mainstream. But by the end of the 20th century their insights had been smothered by corporate power and its political allies, with predictable consequences: We live with a narrow politics where democratic deliberation rarely touches fundamental questions of power and ownership. The re-emergence of this democratic critique of inequality through the political success of figures like Warren, Sanders and Ocasio-Cortez seems to point to the beginning of a course correction, or at least the beginning of dialogue about a course correction. The extent to which our economic elites are rattled by the mere fact that this discussion is happening is a clear sign that it needs to happen. As Americans across the political spectrum gear up to try to deny President Trump a second term in office, all of this may seem divisive — a distraction from the emergency at hand. Just the opposite is true. Trump’s presidency is a symptom of profound democratic weakness. Should he lose in 2020, that will be the beginning of a recovery. We’ll still need to rethink and rebuild our democracy and that has to include a reimagining of the economy on which it rests. Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie ", "id": "5c4f3b723a125f5075c06b83", "date": "2019-01-28T17:26:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Ocasio-Cortez Effect: Wave of Challenges Hits Entrenched N.Y. Democrats", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez may be just the beginning. Less than eight months after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez stunned the political world by unseating a powerful Democratic congressman, her home state is emerging as an epicenter of House primary challenges in 2020. Party insurgents are plotting and preparing to battle with the entrenched establishment — targeting as many as a half-dozen Congress members in and around New York City — over what it means to be a Democrat and a progressive in the age of President Trump. The coming New York uprising could result in a series of races that lay bare some of the same generational, racial, gender and ideological cleavages expected to define the 2020 presidential primary. The activist left, in particular, hopes that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory will inspire a brush fire of Democrat-on-Democrat campaigns that will spread from New York across the nation. Serious primary challengers for House seats have historically been rare, and it is almost unheard of for so many to emerge in one region so early in the election cycle. Only two Democratic incumbents — including Joseph Crowley, the former No. 4 Democrat in the House, who lost to Ms. Ocasio-Cortez — were felled nationwide in 2018. But threats now seem to loom for numerous New York incumbents. In Manhattan, Jerrold Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, could be challenged, just as a California billionaire pressures him to move to impeach President Trump. On Long Island, a Democratic National Committee member is making noises about taking on Tom Suozzi. In Brooklyn, a rematch is in the works in what was one of the nation’s closest primaries in 2018. And in the Bronx and Westchester, some progressives are pushing to unseat Eliot L. Engel, a white congressman who represents a diversifying district where white residents are now in the minority — just like where Ms. Ocasio-Cortez won. Not every challenge in New York will be run on ideological grounds. Some will be powered by more local disputes, longstanding grudges or just timely ambition. But for many progressives, the goal is to police the Democratic Party ideologically, much in the way the Tea Party pushed Republicans to the right. “We are trying to elect more Alexandrias,” said Alexandra Rojas, executive director of Justice Democrats, the insurgent group devoted to recruiting progressive primary challengers nationally. “She is an example of what one victory can do. Imagine what we can do with more primary wins across the country.” After Mr. Crowley’s defeat almost no one is seen as untouchable. “They should be afraid,” Maria L. Svart, the national director of the Democratic Socialists of America, which backed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, said of incumbent House Democrats. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez herself appeared in a promotional video for Justice Democrats and on an organizing call for the group last November during which Saikat Chakrabarti, now her chief of staff, declared, “We gotta primary folks.” A report that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was seeking a Democratic challenger to Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the highest-ranking New Yorker in House leadership, rattled the delegation. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez denied the story with her colleagues and has sought to smooth over relations. They, in turn, have sought to establish personal or professional bonds with her, signing onto her Green New Deal, for instance — recognizing the power of her megaphone. In an interview in January, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said she had “put zero energy” into the question of primarying colleagues. She said the freshman class had “already changed the opinions and commitments of a lot of incumbent members already. And I think that is something we should absolutely consider.” Whether or not Ms. Ocasio-Cortez gets personally involved, insurgent groups are plowing ahead. “In deep blue states, Republicans increasingly don’t exist,” explained Sean McElwee, a co-founder of the progressive think tank Data for Progress who has been involved in finding primary challengers in New York. “We spend a lot of time thinking about why we have right-wing corporate Democrats selling out our interests.” Mr. McElwee called the push to recruit a challenger to Mr. Engel, who chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee and has been in Congress for three decades, a “top priority” and he recently commissioned a poll there. Mr. Engel easily dispatched a self-funded white male challenger in 2018 but activists are particularly keen on finding a younger candidate of color in 2020; only about a half-dozen white Democratic men represent a more diverse district in Congress than Mr. Engel. One potential challenger mulling a run is Andom Ghebreghiorgis, a Yale graduate and 33-year-old educator in Mount Vernon, who said that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez “showed there’s a hunger, especially here in New York, for representatives who reflect the changing progressive politics of their communities.” In a statement, Mr. Engel praised the party’s “new energy” and said the fact that anyone can run “is the beauty of our electoral system.” But, he added, “I think we’re doing the people we represent and the country a disservice by focusing on 2020 primaries when we have so much to do right now in Washington.” Representative Nadler could face a primary from Lindsey Boylan, a former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She said she was considering a run after watching the 2018 midterms, as “these women decided not to wait their turn because it was never going to be their turn.” “I just can’t justify having my daughter watch me sit on the sidelines,” she said. A huge X-factor in any Nadler primary would be the billionaire activist Tom Steyer, who has pushed for the impeachment of Mr. Trump. Mr. Steyer has already polled the popularity of impeachment in the district and is launching a $200,000 direct mail, television and digital ad campaign this week urging Mr. Nadler to begin impeachment hearings in his committee. In the Bronx, Representative José E. Serrano, in Congress since 1990, could face a challenge from Councilman Ritchie Torres, a 30-year-old often described as a rising star, who said he is weighing a run. Mr. Serrano, 75, almost faced a primary in 2018: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez initially filed paperwork to run against him before refiling days later against Mr. Crowley. Two other Democratic New York City congresswomen who faced primary opponents in 2018, Representatives Yvette Clarke and Carolyn Maloney, expect challenges again. Ms. Clarke, who won with only 53 percent of the vote, is likely to face a rematch with Adem Bunkeddeko, the Harvard-educated son of war Ugandan refugees who has signaled he plans to run again. “We’re at a moment of reckoning. Some people get it and some people don’t,” Mr. Bunkeddeko said. “Maybe someone’s seventh term is the charm?” he added of Ms. Clarke. “But most of us aren’t holding our breath.” Ms. Clarke said she had reorganized her district office following the 2018 close call and is aggressively selling her progressive credentials in the more gentrified and liberal parts of the district, such as Park Slope. “I definitely will not be caught by surprise,” she said. Ms. Maloney won more comfortably, with nearly 60 percent, but her 2018 opponent, Suraj Patel, actually won far more votes than Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. (Total turnout in the more affluent district that spans three boroughs was higher.) He, too, is considering another run. “After 25 years, we need change,” Mr. Patel said. “We deserve a congressperson who isn’t recklessly indifferent to the less privileged.” Ms. Maloney said, “Competition is good for everybody and good for democracy.” Of Mr. Patel, she added, “He was soundly defeated after all was said and done.” Two Long Island Democrats could face 2020 primaries, too: Representatives Suozzi and Kathleen Rice. Mr. Suozzi, a member of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, has angered progressive activists, including on immigration, after he went on “Fox and Friends” last summer to embrace “some physical structures on the border” and defend the Immigration and Customs and Enforcement agency. In an interview, Mr. Suozzi said he was only in favor of expanded barriers as part of a broader immigration accord. “I’m not a one-size-fits-all member of Congress,” he said, “but I work hard to represent my district.” Some on the left have encouraged Robert Zimmerman, a D.N.C. member who lives in the district and once ran for Congress in the early 1980s, to challenge Mr. Suozzi from the left. Mr. Zimmerman, 64, did not rule out a run as he slammed Mr. Suozzi as a “Trump sympathizer” in an interview. “I understand it’s unusual,” Mr. Zimmerman said of a party official attacking his local congressman. “It’s more unusual to have a member not stand up for mainstream Democratic principles.” Of Mr. Zimmerman, Mr. Suozzi declined to comment. In the neighboring district, Ms. Rice riled up some national and local Democrats with her outspoken opposition to Nancy Pelosi’s ascent as speaker. Mr. McElwee’s group commissioned a poll of how Ms. Rice’s opposition to Ms. Pelosi was received, along with her positions on other progressive issues. Kevan Abrahams, the Democratic leader in the Nassau County Legislature who lost a primary to Ms. Rice in 2014, is considering running again, though he said he was currently focused on his own re-election this fall. Jay Jacobs, the incoming chairman of the New York Democratic Party, acknowledged that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s success had emboldened potential challengers. But he noted that the primary rules in New York have changed since 2018, when it was the only state in America to hold a separate state and congressional elections, driving down turnout to abysmal lows. Plus, incumbents won't be “caught sleeping.” “It’s going to be a real fight,” Mr. Jacobs said. “And in a real fight, my money is with the incumbents.” An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the former economic development adviser to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. She is Lindsey Boylan, not Lindsay Boylan.    ", "id": "5c653c893a125f5075c09a9e", "date": "2019-02-14T10:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump vs. Ocasio-Cortez: Who Will Win the Internet?", "full_text": " They both know how to control the narrative. But one of them comes across as a human being and the other as a cartoon bobblehead.  Ms. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer.  Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is “Extremely Online.” That’s the phrase that Charlie Warzel — soon to be my colleague at The New York Times — used to describe the new congresswoman in an article on Buzzfeed News, in which he noted a multitude of fast-twitch posts by her on a range of issues on Instagram and Twitter. She is “the perfect foil for the pro-Trump media,” he wrote. Her posts “are relentless, keeping Ocasio-Cortez in the news cycle. She’s an insurgent, internet-native political force.” “Extremely Online” — typically capitalized — is usually defined as conducting as much of one’s life online and having as little human contact as possible. But Ms. Ocasio-Cortez embodies and morphs the concept like the digital native she is, meaning simply that she speaks the language of the internet fluently. [Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.] That was made clear by her ability to turn a video of her dancing in a “Breakfast Club” homage at Boston University — posted to hurt her — into a transcendent meta-meme last week. It was accomplished by her offering an expertly rendered bookend, a decade later, as she danced to “War (What Is It Good For)” right by the plaque with her name on it outside her Capitol Hill office. And more: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has done live conversations that include both cooking tips and policy pronouncements, has posted stories of her congressional experience the way others post vacation or holiday or food photos and has clapped back expertly in pithy tweets at whatever gets dished out at her by the right. What she is doing is significant for politics, because of one key thing: She has made digital depictions of herself seem very analog. In other words, she is perfectly human online. The ability to take your message and yourself directly to people is perhaps one of this era’s most important talents. In this, as much as she’d hate to admit it, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is following in the footsteps of President Trump. I recently wrote a column about how Mr. Trump had been using social media to govern, noting that “we are now a government of the Twitter, by the Twitter and for the Twitter.” That’s even truer this week, as the government shutdown has dragged on and Mr. Trump has taken to Twitter to provide running commentary of the situation and also to make threats, attack foes, lob fact-free water balloons and generally conduct a bizarre play-by-play of his state of mind. After his television appearance this week to demand funding for his fantasy wall was widely panned as lackluster, he doubled down on tweets to make his ALL-CAPS points. What’s interesting about Mr. Trump’s digital efforts is that even though he is always online, he is not Extremely Online. Rather than fully engaging with the platforms and employing their nifty audio and video tools, he has stuck to text, using his own set of locutions and his own distinctive voice. While at first this made him seem, to many supporters at least, more authentic than the average politician, it is now making him look more and more like a giant cartoon bobblehead. The internet is not making him more of a person.  And while he spouts outward, turning into an online megaphone, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez listens, takes everything in and reacts. Both methods work. And she is the only one who can keep up with him online. The joint response by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer to Mr. Trump’s wall speech turned into a very funny mom-and-dad-sure-are-mad meme, while Senator Lindsey Graham looked like a feckless spinning top as he pinged from faux indignation at some of Mr. Trump’s acts to adulation. There is no one close, except Beto O’Rourke, whose adorkable stylings tend more toward family igloo-building and earnest informational postings and live Facebook posts (he just did one from the border, carrying a doughnut, after Mr. Trump’s speech). But he’s slow and cool and deep dude in a way that — while effective — is very different from the more frantic tone that both Mr. Trump and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez employ. It would be a mistake to dismiss their practices as just noise. Because, as Mr. Warzel noted correctly, they are controlling the narrative by doing this so effectively. “It’s agenda-setting,” he wrote, whether we’re talking about the wall (Mr. Trump) or taxing the rich (Ms. Ocasio-Cortez). “Constant content creation forces your opponent to respond to you.” It means you are creating the news.  While there is a danger in that, it’s probably the way it’s going to be from here on out, and those who can do it well are more likely to get the attention in this very dissonant world. This is the world that was predicted in the 1976 satirical movie “Network,” now a popular Broadway show. I saw it recently and the lead character, Howard Beale, articulated exactly what is happening now, for good or not so good: “I feel vivid and flashing, as if suddenly I’d been plugged into some great electromagnetic field,” he says. “It is a shattering and beautiful sensation. It is the exalted flow of the space-time continuum, save that it is spaceless and timeless and of such loveliness. I feel on the verge of some great, ultimate truth. And you will not take me off the air for now or for any other spaceless time!” Mr. Beale was Extremely Online. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  An earlier version of this article misidentified the school featured in a video of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez dancing. It is Boston University, not Boston College. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook ", "id": "5c37ba523a125f5075c03cdd", "date": "2019-01-10T21:34:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez Builds a National Platform, but a District Office? Not Open Yet", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] In three short weeks in office, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has shaped a national conversation on taxation, emerged as the face of a green jobs plan in Washington and elevated her initials into a worldwide brand. But she has not yet opened an office in her own New York City district — a delay that may give a sense of her priorities early in her tenure. During an appearance on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” on Monday, she blamed the government shutdown. “There’s a lot of things we can’t do as freshman members,” she told Mr. Colbert as they ate spoonfuls of ice cream. “We can’t properly set up our district offices. We can’t get laptops delivered. We can’t start doing the work that we were elected here to do.” “It takes the green stuff,” she said. “And those workers are furloughed.” But the shutdown has not had a similar effect on other first-term Congress members from New York State. Of the four who took office on Jan. 3, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is the only one who has yet to open a district office. (A fifth freshman, Representative Joseph Morelle, has also opened a local office, but he took office in November after a special election and therefore had more time.) “We haven’t really run into any issues via the shutdown,” said Jonas Edwards-Jenks, a spokesman for Max Rose, a Democratic representative from Staten Island. Mr. Rose unseated a Republican incumbent, Dan Donovan, and moved into Mr. Donovan’s former district office. “We took that office over and were able to have that open on Day 1,” said Mr. Edwards-Jenks. The shutdown did not stop Representative Antonio Delgado from opening his first local office in Kingston, N.Y., within two weeks of taking office. Nor did it stop Anthony Brindisi, a freshman representative in upstate New York, from opening two offices. “No issues due to the shutdown,” said Macey Matthews, a spokeswoman for Mr. Brindisi. “Our Binghamton office opened on Jan. 3, and our Utica office officially opened yesterday,” she said in an email last week. District offices often function as one-stop service centers for constituents, and in Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s district, the congresswoman’s staff would have been able to help with imminent problems like deportation and more mundane concerns like airplane noise from nearby La Guardia Airport. Instead, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote on Twitter on Tuesday that constituents have been redirected to Senator Kirsten Gillibrand’s office since “prior to our swearing-in,” and that she was thankful for “continued assistance” from the senator’s office. For Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, finding a balance between the unique national platform she has attained as a new member of Congress and the workaday realities of what members call “case work” back home has been on her mind since the start. Among the videos she posted during her first days in Washington at a so-called Congress camp after her victory last year is a poll in which she asked where her focus should be. “Would you rather have a Congress member with an amazing local services office, or one that leads nationally on issues?” she queried her 1.9 million followers on Instagram — a number that is well over twice the population of her district. The results strongly favored national issues. Her district, New York’s 14th, includes sections of the Bronx and Queens and is among the most ethnically diverse in the country, a place where local and federal officials said they dealt daily with constituent concerns over immigration, Medicare, Social Security and veterans benefits among other issues. Joseph Crowley, the former Democratic power broker whom Ms. Ocasio-Cortez defeated in June, dealt with at least 370 constituent cases in his last full year, according to a Twitter post from his office at the time. While Ms. Ocasio-Cortez blamed the shutdown for her delay in opening a district office, the General Services Administration, which helps with the setup of such offices, said those services were not affected by the shutdown. But General Services could not deliver office supplies — including laptop computers — to a district office that has not been opened. The reality may be much more local: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s decision not to take over Mr. Crowley’s Jackson Heights, Queens, office complicated her office setup. (He also had an office in the Bronx.) “If you’re inheriting your predecessor’s offices, that can be relatively seamless,” said Bradford Fitch, the president of the Congressional Management Foundation, a nonprofit that helps lawmakers and their aides. “Opening up a new office has all of the challenges of opening up a new business, along with the red tape.” A month or two for a member changing offices would not uncommon, Mr. Fitch said. No new leases could be signed before Jan. 3, but the office could begin making arrangements, Mr. Fitch said. “I’m pretty sure that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was not going to be beat in a general election. So I’m sure they had more time to plan,” he said. After receiving questions from The Times about the district office, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez used  her official House Twitter account to explain that she did not take over Mr. Crowley’s office because the landlord had wanted to nearly double the rent. The landlord could not immediately be reached. In recent days, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has secured a space along 37th Avenue in Jackson Heights, about eight blocks away from Mr. Crowley’s old office. That office is not expected to open until at least March. Her website describes it as “under construction.” In the meantime, her communications director Corbin Trent said, some of her staff were working out of the Bronx office of a newly elected state senator, Alessandra Biaggi. Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodman.", "id": "5c479d013a125f5075c05bf3", "date": "2019-01-22T22:45:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Tax Hike Idea Is Not About Soaking the Rich", "full_text": " It’s about curtailing inequality and saving democracy.  Mr. Saez and Mr. Zucman are economics professors at the University of California, Berkeley,  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has kick-started a much-needed debate about taxes. But the debate, so far, has been misplaced. It’s obvious that the affluent — who’ve seen their earnings boom since 1980 while their taxes fell — can contribute more to the public coffers. And given the revenue needs of the country, it is necessary.  But that’s not the fundamental reason higher top marginal income tax rates are desirable. Their root justification is not about collecting revenue. It is about regulating inequality and the market economy. It is also about safeguarding democracy against oligarchy. It has always been about that. Look at the history of the United States. From 1930 to 1980, the top marginal income tax rate averaged 78 percent; it exceeded 90 percent from 1951 to 1963. What’s important to realize is that these rates applied to extraordinarily high incomes only, the equivalent of more than several million dollars today. Only the ultrarich were subjected to them. In 1960, for example, the top marginal tax rate of 91 percent started biting above a threshold that was nearly 100 times the average national income per adult, the equivalent of $6.7 million in annual income today. The merely rich — the high-earning professionals, the medium-size company executives, people with incomes in the hundreds of thousands in today’s dollars — were taxed at marginal rates in a range of 25 percent to 50 percent, in line with what’s typical nowadays (for instance, in states like California and New York, including state income taxes). That few people faced the 90 percent top tax rates was not a bug; it was the feature that caused sky-high incomes to largely disappear. The point of high top marginal income tax rates is to constrain the immoderate, and especially unmerited, accumulation of riches. From the 1930s to the 1980s, the United States came as close as any democratic country ever did to imposing a legal maximum income. The inequality of pretax income shrank dramatically. [Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section.] The view that excessive income concentration corrodes the social contract has deep roots in America — a country founded, in part, in reaction against the highly unequal, aristocratic Europe of the 18th century. Sharply progressive taxation is an American invention: The United States was the first country in the world, in 1917 — four years after the creation of the income tax — to impose tax rates as high as 67 percent on the highest incomes. When Representative Ocasio-Cortez proposes a 70 percent rate for incomes above $10 million, she is reconnecting with this American tradition. She’s reviving an ethos that Ronald Reagan successfully repressed, but that prevailed during most of the 20th century. And she’s doing so at a time when there is an emergency. For just as we have a climate crisis, we have an inequality crisis. Over more than a generation, the lower half of income distribution has been shut out from economic growth: Its income per adult was $16,000 in 1980 (adjusted for inflation), and it still is around $16,000 today. At the same time, the income of a tiny minority has skyrocketed. For the highest 0.1 percent of earners, incomes have grown more than 300 percent; for the top 0.01 percent, incomes have grown by as much as 450 percent. And for the tippy-top 0.001 percent — the 2,300 richest Americans — incomes have grown by more than 600 percent. Just as the point of taxing carbon is not to raise revenue but to reduce carbon emissions, high tax rates for sky-high incomes do not aim at funding Medicare for All. They aim at preventing an oligarchic drift that, if left unaddressed, will continue undermining the social compact and risk killing democracy. Of course, there are many policies — from the enforcement of antitrust laws to a broader access to education; from the regulation of intellectual property to better corporate governance — that can contribute to curbing inequality in the years to come. And government transfers, whether in the form of income support for families or public health insurance, have a critical role to play.  But redistribution alone will not be enough to address the inequality challenge of the 21st century. All societies that have successfully tamed inequality have done so mostly by curbing the concentration of pretax income — the inequality generated by the markets — for the simple reason that extreme market inequality undermines the very possibility of redistribution. Tolerating extreme inequality means accepting that it’s not a gross policy failure, not a serious danger to our democratic and meritocratic ideals — but that it’s fair and just and natural. It produces its own self-justifying ideology. It vindicates the “winners” of world markets. But vindicated winners, sure of their own legitimacy, seldom share much of their “just deserts” with the rest of society. An extreme concentration of wealth means an extreme concentration of economic and political power. Although many policies can help address it, progressive income taxation is the fairest and most potent of them all, because it restrains all exorbitant incomes equally, whether they derive from exploiting monopoly power, new financial products, sheer luck or anything else. A common objection to elevated top marginal income tax rates is that they hurt economic growth. But let’s look at the empirical evidence. The United States grew more strongly — and much more equitably — from 1946 to 1980 than it has ever since. But maybe in those years the United States, as the hegemon of the post-World War II decades, could afford “bad” tax policy? Let’s look then at Japan in 1945, a poor and war-devastated country. The United States, which occupied Japan after the war, imposed democracy and a top marginal tax rate of 85 percent on it (almost the same rate as at home — 86 percent in 1947). The goal was obviously not to generate much revenue. It was to prevent, from that tabula rasa, the formation of a new oligarchy. This policy was applied for decades: In 1982, the top rate was still 75 percent. Yet between 1950 and 1982, Japan grew at one of the fastest rates ever recorded (5.1 percent a year per adult on average), one of the most striking economic success stories of all time. Contrast Japan in 1945 with Russia in 1991. When Communism fell, Russia was also a poor country, with income and life expectancy well below that of Western economies. In lieu of 85 percent top rates, however, Russians got fast privatization and a top tax rate of 30 percent — again modeled on what was prevailing in the United States at the time (31 percent in 1991). That rate was replaced in 2001 by an even lower flat rate of 13 percent. That shock therapy created a new oligarchy, led to negative income growth for the bottom half of the population, fostered a general discontent with democracy and produced a drift toward authoritarianism. Progressive income taxation cannot solve all our injustices. But if history is any guide, it can help stir the country in the right direction, closer to Japan and farther from Putin’s Russia. Democracy or plutocracy: That is, fundamentally, what top tax rates are about. Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman are professors of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, and the authors of a forthcoming book about tax justice. ", "id": "5c46f7ba3a125f5075c05a0d", "date": "2019-01-22T11:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez Team Flubs a Green New Deal Summary, and Republicans Pounce", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — Days after introducing her Green New Deal — a plan to combat climate change that has won the endorsement of several Democratic presidential candidates — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez found the proposal enmeshed in confusion when her staff published a summary that included provisions not endorsed by the candidates. Over the weekend her staff backed away from the document, saying it was incomplete and had been published by accident, after Republicans pounced on the plan, citing a blog post of frequently asked questions. That post included language that called for economic security “for all who are unable or unwilling to work.” “An early draft of a FAQ that was clearly unfinished and that doesn’t represent the GND resolution got published to the website by mistake,” Saikat Chakrabarti, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff, wrote on Twitter, referring to the plan by its acronym. The plan, written by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman Democrat from New York, and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, was modeled on Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal and embraced by several presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris, Democrat of California; Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; and Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey. It was also welcomed by Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, who is seen as a possible presidential contender. The sweeping resolution, which calls for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of planet-warming carbon dioxide by 2030, was also signed by more than 60 House and Senate Democrats. The plan is a nonbinding resolution and outlines goals in broad strokes rather than mapping out concrete legislation. Spokeswomen and spokesmen for Senator Harris, Senator Gillibrand, Senator Booker and Senator Sanders did not return telephone calls or emails requesting comment on the error. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has promoted the plan as a blueprint for the eventual Democratic presidential nominee. But Republicans have turned the episode with the FAQ into a campaign moment, putting out a news release saying the document revealed the “new extreme left’s startling priorities.” “They completely screwed it up,” said John Feehery, a Republican and former senior House aide. “The fact that a young freshman would make careless mistakes is not that surprising. The fact that all these presidential candidates, who are trying to distinguish themselves from the president by saying they have gravitas and credibility, would so blindly follow her is a little shocking.” “Mistakes happen” when coordinating multiple groups and collaborators, Mr. Chakrabarti wrote on Twitter. “What’s in the resolution is the GND.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook ", "id": "5c6207333a125f5075c0928d", "date": "2019-02-11T23:35:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Ocasio-Cortez, Warren and Sanders in an Unlikely Skirmish With N.Y. Democrats", "full_text": " [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] ALBANY — A handful of the nation’s leading left-leaning Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, have picked a fight with an unexpected opponent: the New York State Democratic Party. They are fighting over an arcane, but critical, aspect of New York’s election laws that gives small parties the ability to wield significant influence in state politics. The practice, known as fusion voting, allows small political parties to cross-endorse major candidates, which has enabled organizations like the Working Families Party to become a darling of the progressive left and a growing irritant to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. The State Democratic Party on Monday passed a resolution to get rid of fusion voting. New York is only one of a small handful of states that allow it. Mr. Cuomo has not taken a public position on fusion voting, but it seemed unlikely that the State Democratic Party — whose fealty to the governor is so pronounced that the prayer at the 2018 convention praised his accomplishments — would act without his approval. As such, the dispute could open another fault line between the party’s establishment — represented by Mr. Cuomo, a lifelong centrist who had banked to the left in his second term — and the party’s more insurgent wing, which is still suspicious of the governor’s history of working with Republicans. Mr. Sanders asked Mr. Cuomo on Twitter about his feelings on the issue, saying the state party’s proposed action “reeks of vengeance against progressives and the Working Families Party,” which endorsed Cynthia Nixon in her unsuccessful primary challenge against the governor last year. “What’s more, it’s anti-democratic,” Mr. Sanders said on Twitter. “We should be for more democracy, not less. Don’t you agree @NYGovCuomo?” That tweet was later deleted and replaced with a less confrontational comment. (Josh Orton, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders, said an early draft of the senator’s tweet was accidentally posted and then quickly replaced, and that Mr. Cuomo’s team had not communicated any reaction about the initial tweet.) Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, also on Twitter, conveyed her support for the practice, decrying “New York’s notorious closed-party primaries and calcified political machines,” and calling fusion voting “one of the few bright spots that allows independent NYers to vote their values.” “There isn’t a single good reason to eliminate it,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez wrote. A Cuomo administration official suggested on Monday that the Working Families Party was creating an imagined conflict to stir up support for itself. “I know they were humiliated in last year’s governor’s race, but that’s no excuse to run around spreading lies and ranting about conspiracies,” said Richard Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo. “It’s both sad and a bad look.” The state party’s resolution has little practical impact; any effort to eliminate fusion voting must be approved by the Democrat-controlled State Legislature, and such legislation would likely face a difficult path, even with the state party supporting the move. Many Democratic lawmakers benefit from appearing on multiple lines. Much of the Senate Democratic conference, which took control of Albany’s upper chamber in January, is opposed to eliminating fusion voting, including a bloc of six newly elected senators who in a letter released on Monday thanked the W.F.P., and fusion voting, for getting them into office. “Progressives want to make it easier for voters to express their values and viewpoints, not harder,” the six senators wrote. “That means mending our current system of fusion voting, not ending it.” A spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, said there was “no legislative proposal” to end fusion voting and that the “Senate majority has been clear that we support efforts to empower voters and strengthen New York’s democracy.” On the other side of the Capitol, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, Carl E. Heastie of the Bronx, was more circumspect, saying he and his conference had not yet discussed the issue. Fusion voting helps facilitate the survival of parties like the Conservative Party and the Independence Party, which often endorse Republicans. Under state law, any party which receives 50,000 votes in a gubernatorial election is guaranteed a spot on the ballot for the next four years. Mr. Cuomo collected votes on four different ballot lines, including the Working Families Party, on the way toward a record vote-tally in November. But the W.F.P. did not endorse Mr. Cuomo in the primary; party leaders, saying they wanted to support a “real Democrat,” chose Ms. Nixon. The W.F.P.’s bet backfired when Mr. Cuomo badly defeated Ms. Nixon in September, and the group subsequently endorsed Mr. Cuomo in the general election in a humbling reversal. Since then, the party has anticipated retribution from Mr. Cuomo, who has been known to hold a grudge. The W.F.P. continued to issue warning shots to the Democratic Party in the last several days, sending out a battery of letters from supporters of fusion voting — including Senators Chuck Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, and most of the state’s Democratic House of Representatives delegation — and issuing multiple online pleas for support tagged with #StandWithWFP and #NoFusionBan. After the vote on Monday, the group’s state director, Bill Lipton, also bashed the resolution, accusing the Democratic State Committee of “carrying Cuomo’s water to exact revenge” against progressives and his party. “Luckily, Democratic elected officials, activists and progressive leaders aren’t buying it,” Mr. Lipton said. At the party meeting in Westchester on Monday, several supporters of the resolution seemed to suggest that Democrats were fed up with the influence that small parties like the W.F.P. wield. “I’m tired of the tail wagging the dog,” said Tim Perfetti, the chairman of the Cortland County Democratic Party. Jay Jacobs, the newly elected party chairman and the head of the Nassau County Democratic Party, denied that Mr. Cuomo had called for the party to take up the ban, saying that he, other county leaders and members of the party’s progressive caucus had long wanted it passed, citing election wins by Republicans thanks to third-party votes. Still, Mr. Jacobs acknowledged that the resolution’s passage was unlikely to displease Mr. Cuomo. “Is the governor going to be unhappy about it?” Mr. Jacobs said. “Probably not.”    ", "id": "5c7e2cdf49f0eacbf105b5d1", "date": "2019-03-05T08:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Yes, We Need a Green New Deal. Just Not the One Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Offering.", "full_text": " There is a better way to reduce harmful emissions. Mr. Rattner served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration. Yes, of course, we need a Green New Deal to address the world’s most urgent crisis, global warming. Just, please, not the one that a flotilla of liberal politicians, including seven of the top Democratic presidential hopefuls currently in the Senate, are signing up for in droves, like children following the pied piper in the old legend. Our modern-day pied piper, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is trying to lure us into a set of policies that might help save the planet but at the cost of severely damaging the global economy. To be sure, by the time the resolution was introduced into Congress, some of its most ludicrous provisions (like the deadline of 2030 for a full transition to renewable energy and the immediate halt to any investment in fossil fuels) had been eliminated or watered down. But as important as continuing to prune the absurd or damaging provisions would be to add what is the most effective way to attack climate change: using taxes and market forces rather than government controls to reduce harmful emissions. That has been a problem for decades, at least since Washington got seriously into the business of improving the environment, back in 1970 with the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency — under President Richard Nixon! Politicians prefer that approach because using regulation hides the costs of reducing emissions. The decision, for example, to force improvements in automobile mileage by requiring each manufacturer to improve overall fleet efficiency has added thousands of dollars to the cost of cars. Higher car prices have the countervailing impact of encouraging Americans to hang onto their older, less fuel-efficient cars for a longer time, offsetting at least some of the gains from newer cars. Nor have the regulations, with their many escape hatches, kept consumers from buying even more sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks as gas prices have remained historically low. Fortunately, there is a better way to address the climate problem at far lower cost to the economy: a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. That can be imposed in any number of ways. The 18.4 cent federal gasoline tax, for example, hasn’t been increased since 1993 even as most other developed countries impose far higher levies. A particularly thoughtful proposal has come from the Climate Leadership Council, a bipartisan organization that counts more than 3,300 economists among its signatories. Elegant in its simplicity, the key provision would be the imposition of an escalating tax on carbon. At an initial rate of $43 per ton, the levy would be roughly equivalent to 38.2 cents per gallon of gasoline. To prevent polluters from fleeing overseas, the tax would be imposed on imports from countries lacking a similar provision while exports to those countries would not be taxed. While difficult to implement, that component is important to work out. The entire proceeds from the tax would be rebated to consumers. The council suggests an equal amount for each American; my view would be to exclude the wealthy (who hardly need the estimated $2,000 a year in payments) and disproportionately favor those closer to the bottom. Why are so many economists, even conservative ones, in favor of a massive new tax? Because markets do not always price in “externalities” like pollution. In addition to cutting consumption, raising the price of carbon would arguably do more to encourage development of alternative power sources than all the massive new government spending programs that advocates of the Green New Deal envision. Some technical problems would need to be addressed, such as how the higher prices would filter through inflation calculations and create unintended cost of living adjustments to wages and Social Security payments. But those are details; the key point is that a carbon tax has been judged by climate hawks like Resources for the Future to be far more effective in reaching the goals of the Paris agreement than the well-intended regulations put in place by President Barack Obama and his predecessors. That’s at least part of why the plan enjoys support from an armada of organizations not often on the same page, like Exxon Mobil and Conservation International. Historically, the politics of even small increases in the gasoline tax have been tough. A 2017 proposal in the House to increase tax by just one penny went nowhere. But recent polls suggest that perhaps sentiment is changing; a survey by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago found that 44 percent of Americans favor a carbon tax while only 29 percent oppose one. Given how late we are to the climate battle, maintaining some sensible regulation will also be necessary. But a hefty carbon tax would go a long way toward winning the war. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.\r\n       ", "id": "5c920f7f49f0eacbf105e07f", "date": "2019-03-20T10:00:05+0000"}]