[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Many Problems With the Barr Letter", "full_text": " Mr. Katyal is a law professor at Georgetown. He drafted the special counsel regulations under which Robert Mueller was appointed. On Sunday afternoon, soon after Attorney General Bill Barr released a letter outlining the Mueller investigation report, President Trump tweeted “Total EXONERATION!” But there are any number of reasons the president should not be taking a victory lap.  First, obviously, he still faces the New York investigations into campaign finance violations by the Trump team and the various investigations into the Trump organization. And Mr. Barr, in his letter, acknowledges that the Mueller report “does not exonerate” Mr. Trump on the issue of obstruction, even if it does not recommend an indictment.  But the critical part of the letter is that it now creates a whole new mess. After laying out the scope of the investigation and noting that Mr. Mueller’s report does not offer any legal recommendations, Mr. Barr declares that it therefore “leaves it to the attorney general to decide whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime.” He then concludes the president did not obstruct justice when he fired the F.B.I. director, James Comey. Such a conclusion would be momentous in any event. But to do so within 48 hours of receiving the report (which pointedly did not reach that conclusion) should be deeply concerning to every American.  The special counsel regulations were written to provide the public with confidence that justice was done. It is impossible for the public to reach that determination without knowing two things. First, what did the Mueller report conclude, and what was the evidence on obstruction of justice? And second, how could Mr. Barr have reached his conclusion so quickly? Mr. Barr’s letter raises far more questions than it answers, both on the facts and the law.  His letter says Mr. Mueller set “out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” Yet we don’t know what those “difficult issues” were, because Mr. Barr doesn’t say, or why Mr. Mueller, after deciding not to charge on conspiracy, let Mr. Barr make the decision on obstruction. On the facts, Mr. Barr says that the government would need to prove that Mr. Trump acted with “corrupt intent” and there were no such actions. But how would Mr. Barr know? Did he even attempt to interview Mr. Trump about his intentions?  What kind of prosecutor would make a decision about someone’s intent without even trying to talk to him? Particularly in light of Mr. Mueller’s pointed statement that his report does not “exonerate” Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller didn’t have to say anything like that. He did so for a reason. And that reason may well be that there is troubling evidence in the substantial record that he compiled. Furthermore, we do not know why Mr. Mueller did not try to force an interview with the president. The reason matters greatly. Mr. Mueller could have concluded that interviews of sitting presidents for obstruction matters are better done within the context of a congressional impeachment investigation (perhaps because a sitting president cannot be indicted, the Barr letter says this legal argument didn’t influence Mr. Barr’s conclusion but again is pointedly silent as to Mr. Mueller).  Or Mr. Barr could have concluded that the attorney general, not a special counsel, should carry out such an interview. The fact that Mr. Barr rushed to judgment, within 48 hours, after a 22-month investigation, is deeply worrisome.  The opening lines of the obstruction section of Mr. Barr’s letter are even more concerning. It says that the special counsel investigated “a number of actions by the president — most of which have been the subject of public reporting.” That suggests that at least some of the foundation for an obstruction of justice charge has not yet been made public. There will be no way to have confidence in such a quick judgment about previously unreported actions without knowing what those actions were. On the law, Mr. Barr’s letter also obliquely suggests that he consulted with the Office of Legal Counsel, the elite Justice Department office that interprets federal statutes. This raises the serious question of whether Mr. Barr’s decision on Sunday was based on the bizarre legal views that he set out in an unsolicited 19-page memo last year.  That memo made the argument that the obstruction of justice statute does not apply to the president because the text of the statute doesn’t specifically mention the president. Of course, the murder statute doesn’t mention the president either, but no one thinks the president can’t commit murder. Indeed, the Office of Legal Counsel had previously concluded that such an argument to interpret another criminal statute, the bribery law, was wrong. As such, Mr. Barr’s reference to the office raises the question of whether he tried to enshrine his idiosyncratic view into the law and bar Mr. Trump’s prosecution. His unsolicited memo should be understood for what it is, a badly argued attempt to put presidents above the law. If he used that legal fiction to let President Trump off the hook, Congress would have to begin an impeachment investigation to vindicate the rule of law. Sometimes momentous government action leaves everyone uncertain about the next move. This is not one of those times. Congress now has a clear path of action. It must first demand the release of the Mueller report, so that Americans can see the evidence for themselves. Then, it must call Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller to testify. Mr. Barr in particular must explain his rationale for reaching the obstruction judgment he made. No one wants a president to be guilty of obstruction of justice. The only thing worse than that is a guilty president who goes without punishment. The Barr letter raises the specter that we are living in such times. Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown. He drafted the special counsel regulations under which Robert Mueller was appointed. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c980dd949f0eacbf105ecdf", "date": "2019-03-24T23:06:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Orders Investigations of Discrimination at F.B.I. and Bureau of Prisons", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr has directed parts of the Justice Department to investigate accusations of discrimination, including claims that the F.B.I. academy weeded out potential agents for not being “masculine enough” and that it has become harder for transgender people to work at the Bureau of Prisons. Mr. Barr’s request came in response to a letter that he received last week from DOJ Pride, a Justice Department group founded in 1994 to advocate the interests of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. Less than half of the group’s members said they believed that the Justice Department does not discriminate against them, the letter said, adding that the finding and others from a survey undertaken in October show that members have become more alienated from the department under the Trump administration. “Given the crucial role the department fulfills in our society — enforcing the nation’s laws and administering justice — we are concerned that so many employees who dedicate themselves to the department do not think the department values them,” members of DOJ Pride wrote. In response, Mr. Barr vowed that the Justice Department would not discriminate against workers based on sex, sexual orientation or gender identity, as well as a long list of other “non-merit-based” factors. “Employment decisions at the department must be made solely on merit and free from discrimination,” he wrote in a letter on Thursday addressed to the group and distributed to the more than 115,000 employees of the Justice Department. “Every employee should know that I stand by the principle.” The exchange shows how Mr. Barr is working to raise morale after many Justice Department employees described a drop over the past two years, particularly among gay, lesbian and transgender employees. The F.B.I. said in a statement that it needs people “from all different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives” to effectively do its job protecting Americans and that it does not tolerate discriminatory behavior. The Bureau of Prisons did not respond to a request for comment. Mr. Barr, who was sworn in as attorney general in February, is settling in to a Justice Department that underwent a drastic shift under his predecessor, Jeff Sessions, who moved away from the civil rights-centered agenda of the Obama era to one that reflected his ultraconservative stance on immigration, civil rights and social issues. As Mr. Sessions refocused the department’s civil rights work onto protections for people of faith, police officers and local government officials, critics warned that those moves effectively curbed the rights of gay, lesbian and transgender people, as well as of minorities who faced discrimination from the police. Mr. Sessions also pushed back on departmental efforts to extend civil rights protections to transgender people. He ordered prisons to house transgender women with men, a move that many human rights experts said put the transgender women at risk of assault, and defended President Trump’s ban on transgender soldiers in the military. In October, the department sided with a funeral home that had fired a transgender woman, arguing that the definition of sex in the Civil Rights Act was biological and “does not apply to discrimination against an individual based on his or her gender identity.” And while the heads of all federal agencies are required by law to issue an Equal Employment Opportunity statement saying that they are committed to providing equal employment under the law and a workplace free of discrimination, Mr. Sessions never did. Mr. Sessions’s policy positions reverberated inside the department as well. The survey of DOJ Pride members from October, a month before Mr. Trump forced out Mr. Sessions, found that less than a third of respondents believed that the department “values its L.G.B.T.Q. employees,” and only 43 percent believed that it “does not discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression.” The survey also found that gay, lesbian and transgender employees believed that the department had recently become less welcoming to employees who were not heterosexual. One respondent said that the treatment was grounds for quitting. Some members of DOJ Pride were upset when Guy Benson, a Fox News contributor, was chosen to speak at last year’s annual gay pride celebration. Some members attended a separate awards ceremony, where one person said that the group would not return to the shadows, according to video of the proceedings obtained by The New York Times. In a letter to Mr. Barr last week, the leaders of the group noted that Mr. Sessions had never issued the Equal Employment Opportunity affirmation and said that they believed that it was especially important for Mr. Barr to do so in light of the department’s recent decisions not to extend civil rights protections to transgender people. Mr. Barr issued that statement on Thursday. The attorney general has yet to lay out an agenda on gay rights. During his confirmation hearing, he said that he would support a law that would ban antigay discrimination, but he noted that he does not believe that current sex discrimination laws apply to gay, lesbian and transgender people. But in his letter this week, Mr. Barr wrote that the department would act swiftly when employees are found to have discriminated. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. ", "id": "5ca7e4ea49f0eacbf1f81462", "date": "2019-04-05T23:28:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr, Media Handler", "full_text": " Ten unanswered questions about the attorney general’s conveniently brief letter. Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. William Barr did a skillful job of managing the news media this weekend. He released a four-page letter summarizing Robert Mueller’s investigation, which rightly received blanket coverage, since it was the only official description of the investigation. But I think much of the media was too credulous about Barr’s letter, producing banner headlines and chyrons that treated it as an objective summary of Mueller’s work rather than as a political document meant to make President Trump look good. And it was very much a political document. Barr, the attorney general, works for Trump. Before he joined the administration, he made clear that he felt some disdain for the Mueller investigation — especially about whether Trump obstructed justice. That disdain surely increased his chances of being appointed attorney general. Trump fired the previous holder of the job, after all, for not doing more to control the Russia investigation. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] It’s still possible that Barr’s summary of Mueller’s report is fair. But the longer that Barr waits to release a fuller version of the report, the more suspicious we should be. Barr has been around Washington a long time. He understands that an initial story line can matter more than the details that emerge later. Barr has to be very happy with the media coverage he has received over the past two days. “The Barr summary did its job: control the narrative and turn ‘not enough to charge on this’ into ‘no issues with Russia ever,’” as Tom Nichols, a national security expert, wrote. Susan Hennessey of Lawfare put it this way: “It is possible that the report really does say that there is no evidence. It’s also possible there’s a mountain of evidence just short of the criminal standard. Or something in between. Any of that would be consistent with Barr’s summary.” Ten questions As I wrote yesterday, I now assume that the Trump campaign did not coordinate with Russia in a significant way. But I also still have a lot of questions that Barr’s letter didn’t answer. Here are 10 big questions, compiled with help from articles that appeared elsewhere in the last two days; you’ll find links to them at the bottom. 1. Did Robert Mueller find evidence that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, but that the collusion was not criminal? 2. Related: Why did Barr’s four-page summary appear to define coordination with Russia so narrowly — as an “agreement” between the Trump campaign and the Russian government — and does this word choice suggest that the Mueller investigation found coordination that did not rise to the level of an agreement? 3. What did Mueller discover about Paul Manafort — Trump’s campaign chairman — having shared poll data with a political operative who had apparent ties to Russian military intelligence? (Manafort’s lawyers inadvertently revealed those interactions earlier this year.) 4. Why did Trump and his associates repeatedly lie about their contacts with Russians? 5. Why did Mueller not charge Jerome Corsi, a conservative conspiracy promulgator and an associate of Roger Stone, despite reportedly engaging in plea negotiations with Corsi last year? 6. Does the arrest of Maria Butina, a Russian spy with ties to the National Rifle Association, have anything to do with Mueller’s investigation? 7. Did Mueller find evidence that the activities of Trump or his aides have compromised national security? 8. Did Mueller find any evidence of efforts by the United Arab Emirates and other Middle Eastern countries to influence the 2016 election? 9. Did Mueller issue no decision about obstruction of justice because he believed a sitting president could not be charged with a crime — and thus the decision was ultimately a political matter, to be decided by Congress, rather than a legal one? 10. Did Mueller investigate the possibility that Trump’s businesses helped Russian criminals launder money before he became president, or did Mueller consider this beyond the scope of his investigation? (If he investigated and found no evidence, it would reduce the urgency for the House to pursue this matter.) For more, see Asha Rangappa, a former F.B.I. agent, writing for CNN; Adam Davidson in The New Yorker; Shane Harris of The Washington Post; Garrett Graff, who wrote a book about Mueller’s F.B.I., in Wired; and Nick Akerman, a former Watergate prosecutor, in Washingtonian magazine. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c9a177449f0eacbf105f15b", "date": "2019-03-26T12:12:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In New Effort to Deter Migrants, Barr Withholds Bail to Asylum Seekers", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Tuesday took another significant step to discourage migrants from seeking asylum, issuing an order that could keep thousands of them in jail indefinitely while they wait for a resolution of their asylum requests. The order issued by Attorney General William P. Barr was an effort to deliver on President Trump’s promise to end the “catch and release” of migrants crossing the border in hopes of escaping persecution in their home countries. The order — which directs immigration judges to deny some migrants a chance to post bail — will not go into effect for 90 days. It is all but certain to be challenged in federal court, but immigrant rights lawyers said it could undermine the basic rights of people seeking safety in the United States. “They want to send a message that you will get detained,” said Judy Rabinovitz, a deputy director of the Immigrants Rights’ Project at the American Civil Liberties Union. “We are talking about people who are fleeing for their lives, seeking safety. And our response is just lock them up.” Mr. Barr’s order is the latest effort by the Trump administration to reduce the number of immigrants who are able to seek protection from violence, poverty and gangs by asking for legal status in the United States. It has slowed the processing of asylum requests at ports of entry, and it has ordered that some asylum seekers be required to wait in Mexico. At a recent campaign rally, Mr. Trump said that some asylum claims were a “big fat con job” and that migrants were met at the border by lawyers eager to press those claims. In warning of the coming crackdown, the president said, “I’m not playing games.” For more than a decade, migrants who are deemed to have a “credible fear” of persecution in their home countries have been allowed to request a bond hearing so they can be released on bail while they wait for their asylum cases to be heard, sometimes months or years later. A federal judge in Washington State this month affirmed the rights of individuals with a bona fide claim for asylum, saying they must be given the opportunity to seek bail within seven days of a request. But Mr. Barr’s order came in a case involving an Indian man who crossed into the United States from Mexico and claimed asylum. Mr. Barr, exercising his authority as the top official overseeing the immigration courts, said that migrants in similar cases do not have the right to bail. Such an immigrant, “after establishing a credible fear of persecution or torture, is ineligible for release on bond,” Mr. Barr wrote in his order, which overrules a previous Board of Immigration Appeals case from 2005. A migrant seeking asylum could still ask the Department of Homeland Security to be released under a grant of parole, but that is entirely at the discretion of the department, which under Mr. Trump has sharply cut back on such releases. Mr. Barr’s decision does not affect migrants applying for asylum at one of the two dozen ports of entry along the border with Mexico. It affects people who are apprehended after they cross into the United States illegally in the often vast, rural stretches of the border. Officials say the goal of the hard-line approach is to deter migrants from entering the United States. But the administration’s policies — some of which have been blocked in the courts — have failed to stem the tide of arrivals. A surge of migrants from Central America, many of whom are families traveling with small children, has overwhelmed the Border Patrol and other authorities in communities along the southwestern border. Facilities for detaining illegal immigrants are well beyond capacity, forcing the authorities to release some of them soon after they are apprehended. In the border city of Yuma, Ariz., Mayor Douglas Nicholls declared an emergency on Tuesday over what he said was the “imminent threat” posed by “too many migrant releases into our community.” Mr. Nicholls said that he was seeking help from state and federal authorities. Mr. Barr’s decision could add to the overcrowding crisis in the immigrant detention centers by requiring judges to keep asylum seekers in jail for longer periods. In his 11-page order, Mr. Barr appeared to concede the reality of the problem. “I will delay the effective date of this decision for 90 days so that D.H.S. may conduct the necessary operational planning for additional detention and parole decisions,” Mr. Barr wrote. Mr. Barr’s decision does not affect unaccompanied children or families who cross into the United States illegally. A longstanding settlement in a previous court case says that the government cannot detain children or families for longer than 20 days. But immigrant rights lawyers said that Mr. Barr’s order — if it goes into effect — could set a precedent that the government could use to deny bond hearings, and bail, for an even broader number of immigrants. “That’s what Trump’s mantra is: End catch and release,” Ms. Rabinovitz said. “What does that mean? It’s human beings. We’re not talking about a game of cat and mouse.” Ms. Rabinovitz and other immigration lawyers said they intended to quickly challenge Mr. Barr’s order in federal court, perhaps as soon as Wednesday. The Justice Department declined to comment beyond the text of Mr. Barr’s decision. Because immigration courts are housed under the Justice Department, not the judicial branch, the attorney general has the authority to refer cases to himself and overturn decisions. Last October, less than a month before he was pushed out of the administration, Attorney General Jeff Sessions asked to review the case, known as the “Matter of M- S-,” to determine whether immigrants with credible asylum claims should be able to post bond and enter the United States. Only months before, Mr. Sessions had overturned another immigration appeals court ruling and made it harder for victims of domestic abuse or gang violence to seek asylum. The decision by Mr. Barr is an indication that cracking down on immigration remains a top priority despite the departure of Mr. Sessions, who had been a fierce advocate for tougher immigration laws for more than two decades. Mr. Barr, who was confirmed in February, decided that under the law, immigrants with pending asylum claims must be detained — a decision that overturned an immigration appeals decision in a case called the “Matter of X- K-.”   ", "id": "5cb674bb49f0eacbf1f84bc6", "date": "2019-04-17T00:33:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Hearing: Senators Press Barr on Criminal Justice Overhaul", "full_text": " William P. Barr appeared in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday for the first day of his confirmation hearing for attorney general.  Mr. Barr pledged to allow the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to finish his investigation and promised to withstand political pressure from President Trump or other forces, saying his age, 68, and experience freed him to act independently.  Mr. Barr unexpectedly qualified some of his unusually expansive views of executive power. He emphasized legal limits on the presidency and law enforcement independence.  Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” an unsolicited memo he wrote criticizing Mr. Mueller’s examination of whether the president obstructed justice.  key moment Mr. Barr used his opening remarks to the committee to clarify that he has no intention of firing Mr. Mueller before his work is done and to indicate that he would provide “as much transparency as I can consistent with the law” around the investigation’s results. The rule of law, he insisted, should be above and outside of the politics that divide the nation. “It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr said. He added: “I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to finish.” Mr. Mueller is believed to be in the final stages of his inquiry, which he took over from the F.B.I. in May 2017 after agents opened it nearly two and a half years ago. “The country needs a credible resolution of these issues,” Mr. Barr said. The fate of Mr. Mueller’s findings — an expected report — was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller’s report to the attorney general will be “confidential,” but the attorney general will then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand-jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the president’s lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has suggested may happen. “That will not happen,” Mr. Barr said. — Nicholas Fandos 7:39 P.M. Throughout the hearing, Mr. Barr espoused surprisingly more moderate views than he has previously, and not only about presidential power and law-enforcement independence. He also found himself backpedaling a bit when pressed about his defense of Mr. Trump's push for an investigation into Hillary Clinton.  Mr. Barr had said in 2017 that he saw far more basis to investigate the Obama administration’s approval of the sale of a Canadian mining company to a Russian state-owned corporation than to investigate possible Trump campaign coordination with Russia’s election interference. The sale, which was approved while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, has been the subject of a conspiracy theory about Mrs. Clinton and her family’s foundation that circulates in some conservative circles despite being debunked. Mr. Barr initially suggested his comment, which appeared in a New York Times article, had been mischaracterized. The reporter who wrote the article, Peter Baker, tweeted Mr. Barr’s 2017 email containing the comment in full, putting to rest the possibility of misinterpretation.  Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, later read aloud from the tweeted email during the hearing, noting that Mr. Barr had testified earlier about the seriousness of Russia’s election meddling and pressing him about why he would assert that the Uranium One sale deserved more scrutiny.  Mr. Barr hemmed and hawed, acknowledging that he had “no specific information about Uranium One that would say that it had not been handled appropriately” and that he did not mean the Clinton Foundation merited a criminal investigation. He suggested that he been “using it really as an example of the kinds of things that were floating around and some people felt had to be looked at” too, to make the point that calling for investigations into political opponents was bad: “I don’t subscribe to this ‘lock her up’ stuff,” he said, referring to a popular chant at Mr. Trump’s political rallies about jailing Mrs. Clinton. — Charlie Savage 5:51 P.M. The Justice Department has held for decades time that indicting or criminally prosecuting a president while in office would violate the Constitution by undermining his ability to do his job. Despite a spirited legal debate about the validity of those opinions, Mr. Barr said he saw no reason to revisit them. “I actually haven’t read those opinions in a long time, but I see no reason to change them,” he said, in response to prompt by Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who said he believed the president could be indicted while in office and a trial postponed until his time there ended. — Nicholas Fandos 5:32 P.M. Democrats tried repeatedly to get Mr. Barr to chastise Mr. Trump for his attacks on federal law enforcement and condemn his fanciful use of facts. Mr. Barr did not take the bait, and his response may offer an early glimpse of how he might navigate one of the most uncomfortable positions in the government — overseeing and defending an investigation loathed by the president who nominated him. Even as he offered a consistent defense of Mr. Mueller (“I have the utmost respect for Bob”) and pledged to defend his investigation, Mr. Barr pointedly declined to criticize the president directing unrelenting attacks on investigators and elements of the Justice Department itself. And he said he was not concerned by what Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, called “the way Donald Trump undermines the institutions in our society that help us to maintain a moral consensus” with false information. Instead, Mr. Barr suggested that the president’s position was a reasonable one, at least as it pertained to the Mueller inquiry. “It’s understandable that if someone felt they were falsely accused they would view an investigation as something like a witch hunt where someone like you or me who doesn’t know the facts, you know, might not use that term,” Mr. Barr said. — Nicholas Fandos 5:06 P.M. Senators of both parties extended career guidance, praise and even snacks to Liam Daly, Mr. Barr’s young grandson who sat through the hourslong hearing. Liam’s parents are both Justice Department leaders, and he was deeply engaged in the confirmation process. “You are doing great so far,” he wrote in a note to Mr. Barr that was captured by a Reuters photographer. “I am having so much fun.” After Mr. Barr said that Russia posed a threat to the United States, Liam offered a subtle adjustment. “I think Russia’s people are fine,” he wrote to his grandfather. “The government is the problem.” Liam, 8, is also an avid reader of the children’s edition of The New York Times, a Justice Department official confirmed; Mr. Barr’s wife bought him a subscription. Liam found a recent article on the Supreme Court interesting, the official said. — Katie Benner 4:10 P.M. Senators have asked Mr. Barr about the last attorney general. They have called out former top F.B.I. officials by name. And they have spent an inordinate amount of time playfully counseling his grandson by name. But they have hardly mentioned the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker. Mr. Whitaker had proven to be a lightning rod for scrutiny since he took over the Justice Department when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired late last year. He ignored the advice of ethics experts at the department and decided to take a direct role overseeing the Mueller investigation, an inquiry of which he has been highly critical, and Democrats argue that his temporary appointment was legally dubious in the first place. Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee announced on Tuesday that they had reached an agreement for Mr. Whitaker to testify in public on Feb. 8. The committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said he expected Mr. Whitaker to appear “whether or not the current lapse in appropriations has been resolved, and whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general.” — Nicholas Fandos 4:03 P.M. Mr. Barr took a hawkish stance on China that comports with the Trump administration’s view, calling it “the primary rival of the United States” and praising former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for cracking down on Chinese intellectual property theft and espionage. While he was general counsel of Verizon, Mr. Barr said, he was well aware of the potential national security threat posed by the Chinese telecommunications and tech equipment companies Huawei and ZTE. The intelligence community has long warned that firms were too close to the Chinese government and that they could use their products to monitor communications on behalf of Beijing. — Katie Benner 3:35 P.M. Under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Barr pledged to obey and uphold a 2015 law that restricts interrogators to the techniques listed in the Army Field Manual. “That was an important change because I think it gave clarity to the law and I will support that,” Mr. Barr said. Ms. Feinstein, who chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee when it produced a lengthy investigative report about the C.I.A.’s torture program under the Bush administration, noted that it had relied upon secret memos by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel blessing techniques like extended sleep deprivation and the suffocation tactic known as waterboarding despite anti-torture laws. She also noted that in 2005, Mr. Barr had defended President Bush’s purported legal right to withhold Geneva Convention protections from terrorism detainees and to submit them to coercive interrogation, including “inflicting pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk” so long as it does not involve “the gratuitous barbarity involved in torture.” Pressed by Ms. Feinstein about whether waterboarding counted as torture, Mr. Barr said he did not know if it counted as such under the law in 2005, but that because of the newer law, “right now it’s prohibited, so, you know, the law has definitively dealt with that.” — Charlie Savage 3:22 P.M. Their tones were starkly different, but a coalition of liberal and conservative senators who teamed up last year to push into law major revisions to federal sentencing and prison laws pressed to make sure Mr. Barr understood that times had changed since he was last in office. “During your previous tenure as attorney general, you literally wrote the book on mass incarceration or wrote this report,” said Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, referencing a 1992 Justice Department memorandum, “The Case for More Incarceration.” Mr. Booker urged Mr. Barr to say that the spike in incarceration caused by those policies had disproportionately affected black Americans. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, sought assurances that Mr. Barr that he would implement the new bill, which lowers mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, promotes anti-recidivism programs, and expands early release. The short answer was yes, but Mr. Barr bristled at the suggestion he was hostile to the bill. He said he viewed tough-on-crime policies of the 1980s and 1990s, when he was last in office, as responsible for the ensuing drop in violent crime. “I don’t think comparing the policies that were in effect in 1992 to the situation now is really fair,” he told Mr. Grassley. He added, “I think the time was right to take stock and make changes to our penal system based on our current experience.” — Nicholas Fandos 2:44 p.m. Democratic senators wanted other assurances of noninterference, too, particularly for regular federal prosecutors who be separately investigating Mr. Trump or building cases that could be damaging to his interests. Here, Mr. Barr drew a distinction between the special counsel’s investigation, which is governed by special rules, and matters considered through the department’s normal channels. “I have the responsibility to use my judgment and discretion that are inherent in the office of attorney general to supervise,” he said, referring to cases brought through the usual order. To let individual U.S. attorney’s work without supervision or make assurances about individual investigations would be an abdication of that responsibility, he said. Mr. Barr said that he would not stand for efforts to interfere or scuttle investigations within the department for political reasons, but offered a caveat about presidential power. “I would not stand by and allow, you know, an investigation to be stopped if I thought it was a lawful investigation,” he said. “I wouldn’t stand by for that, but the president is free to fire his, you know, officials that he’s appointed.” Democrats had at least one high-profile case in mind. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have built a case that has implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to pay hush money to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him. “The point is,” Mr. Barr said, “if someone tried to stop a bona fide, lawful investigation to cover up wrongdoing, I would resign.” — Nicholas Fandos 1:19 P.M. Asked whether he would consider jailing journalists “for doing their jobs,” Mr. Barr paused before explaining that he could conceive of situations “as a last resort” where a news organization or journalist needs to be held accountable for “putting out stuff that they know will harm the country.” The Justice Department has cracked down in recent years on government employees who share classified information with reporters. Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department prosecuted more leaks than all previous administrations combined. Reporters are loathe to reveal sources, and some have been jailed for refusing a judge’s orders to do so. Mr. Barr’s hesitation may have been because of the Justice Department’s long pursuit of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over the site’s publication of troves of secret government papers. Obama-era lawyers debated whether to charge him but held off because they could never decide on a clear answer to the question of how his work differed from that of traditional news organizations. But prosecutors have secretly charged him, they mistakenly revealed last year, raising questions of whether they set aside concerns about setting a precedent that would chill press freedoms because of WikiLeaks’ release of stolen Democratic emails that Russian intelligence operatives hacked during the 2016 election.  — Katie Benner From the archives 1 P.M. Mr. Barr said he agrees with the president about the need to change the nation’s immigration laws, including his demand for a border wall that has prompted the nation’s longest government shutdown. “We need money right now for border security — including barriers and walls and slats and other things,” Mr. Barr said, “anything that makes sense in different areas of the border.” Tuesday marked the 25th day of the partial government shutdown with little indication that Mr. Trump and congressional Democrats were any closer to a compromise on funding for a border wall. Mr. Barr said he would like to see an agreement between lawmakers and the president that recognizes the need for border security, “and part of that common-sense matter needs barriers.” — Eileen Sullivan 11:45 A.M. Asked what he would do if confronted with a situation where he might have to resign, Mr. Barr cited his age and his previous stint as attorney general to say he will be unshackled from politics to make the right decision, regardless of whether it is politically prudent for his career or for the president. “It might give me pause if I was 45 or 50 years old, but it doesn’t give me pause right now,” said Mr. Barr, 68. He added: “I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong by anybody whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president. I’m going to do what I think is right.” — Michael S. Schmidt 11:20 A.M. Mr. Barr has long advanced an unusually expansive view of executive authority. He has portrayed the president, not the attorney general, as the nation’s top law-enforcement official, and suggested that Congress cannot bar a president from using his executive powers — like to pardon someone or “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” — in a corrupt way. This has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump, who is not known for his self-restraint. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency. For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the Justice Department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said “that would be a crime.” — Charlie Savage 10:38 A.M. Mr. Barr defended as “entirely proper” his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that Mr. Mueller should not be permitted to investigate the president for violating criminal obstruction-of-justice laws based on how he chose to exercise his constitutional powers, like to fire a subordinate or order an investigation closed. Mr. Barr stressed that he was “in the dark” about what Mr. Mueller’s obstruction theory was, and said that he was merely speculating. He emphasized that his concern was the “ramifications down the road” of establishing such a rule. “One theory in particular that appeared to be under consideration under a specific statute concerned me because I thought it would involve stretching the statute beyond what was intended and would do it in a way that would have serious adverse consequences for all agencies that are involved in the administration of justice, especially the Department of Justice,” he said. “And I thought it would have a chilling effect going forward over time.” — Charlie Savage 10:12 A.M. Ms. Feinstein read excerpts from Mr. Barr’s writings on a president’s purported power to control all law-enforcement activity and said she intended to press him on whether he would resist political interference from Mr. Trump, noting his calls for new criminal inquiries into Democrats like Hillary Clinton. “It’s important that the next attorney general be able to strongly resist pressure, whether from the administration or Congress to conduct investigations for political purposes,” she said. “You must have the integrity, the strength and the fortitude to tell the president ‘no,’ regardless of the consequences.” In his opening statement, Mr. Barr appeared to embrace that principle. “The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice, the enforcement of the law, is above and away from politics,” he said. “Nothing could be more destructive of our system of government, of the rule of law, or the Department of Justice as an institution than any toleration of political interference with the enforcement of the law.” — Charlie Savage 10:02 A.M. Mr. Barr briefly spoke of his commitment to public service and the Justice Department. He noted that most of his children are government lawyers, including one in a top position at the Justice Department. One of his three daughters coordinates the department’s response to the opioid crisis, and a son-in-law also works in the department’s national security division. “Somebody needs to make money in the family,” joked Mr. Graham. — Katie Benner When Mr. Barr was nominated to serve as attorney general the first time in 1991, the Democratic Senate unanimously confirmed him by voice vote. He should not expect such a smooth ride this time around, but with Republicans in control of the chamber by a 53-to-47 majority, his confirmation appears to be on track. Two wild cards could scramble the usual partisan divide.  A handful of moderate Republicans facing re-election fights in 2020 or simply skeptical of Mr. Trump’s intentions could theoretically swing against Mr. Barr if he fails to convince them that he would stand up for the special counsel. If these senators — Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina, Mitt Romney of Utah and others — banded together with a united Democratic caucus, they could kill the confirmation. But Democrats may also be motivated to quickly move Mr. Barr through confirmation. They have been highly critical of the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a Trump loyalist whom they view as a direct threat to Mr. Mueller, and want him out of office as quickly as possible. If they view Mr. Barr as sincere in his public assurances about the investigation, it is a swap many Democrats might eagerly make. — Nicholas Fandos", "id": "5c3dd24e3a125f5075c0478e", "date": "2019-01-15T12:30:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Asserts Intelligence Agencies Spied on the Trump Campaign", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that he would scrutinize the F.B.I.’s investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, including whether “spying” conducted by American intelligence agencies on the campaign’s associates had been properly carried out. “I think spying on a political campaign is a big deal,” Mr. Barr said during testimony before a Senate Appropriations subcommittee, adding that he wanted to look into both “the genesis and the conduct” of the F.B.I. inquiry. He cast his interest as a matter of protecting civil liberties from potential abuse by the government. “I think spying did occur,” Mr. Barr said. “The question is whether it was adequately predicated. And I’m not suggesting that it wasn’t adequately predicated. But I need to explore that.” The remarks by the new attorney general — particularly his embrace of the term spying, which is frequently invoked by critics of the Russia investigation — are certain to please President Trump and his allies, who have accused American law enforcement officials of targeting his campaign out of political malice. Mr. Barr’s pledge, made as he prepares to make public in coming days a redacted version of the special counsel’s report on the Russia inquiry, was a sign that after nearly three years of investigating the president’s campaign and Russia, the Justice Department’s focus may begin to shift in a direction that Mr. Trump has demanded. In addition to Mr. Barr’s review of the F.B.I. investigation, the Justice Department’s inspector general, a specially tasked United States attorney and Republicans in Congress are all studying key actions taken during the course of the inquiry. Those actions include how officials opened the Trump-Russia investigation, called Crossfire Hurricane, and obtained a secret warrant to wiretap a former Trump campaign adviser. Mr. Trump’s thirst for a reckoning among his inquisitors appears to have only grown in recent weeks. Minutes before Mr. Barr took the witness stand on Wednesday, the president called the investigation an “attempted coup” and claimed, again, that he had been “totally exonerated” by the report, despite the fact that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who took over the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation in 2017, explicitly said he could not clear the president of trying to obstruct justice. “It was an illegal investigation,” Mr. Trump told reporters as he left the White House for a trip to Texas. In some of his harshest criticism of the investigation to date, Mr. Trump said: “Everything about it was crooked — every single thing about it. There were dirty cops. These were bad people.” “This was an attempted takedown of a president,” he added. “And we beat them. We beat them.” Mr. Mueller delivered his nearly 400 pages of findings to Mr. Barr late last month. Much of Wednesday’s hearing, and an earlier session with House lawmakers on Tuesday, was focused on that report, on continuing redactions of delicate information before it becomes public, and on Mr. Barr’s characterization of what Mr. Mueller found. Mr. Barr, who said that he hoped to make a redacted version of Mr. Mueller’s report public next week, used more measured tones in describing the review he intended to oversee than Mr. Trump did. The attorney general also signaled that he would wait to hear from others already at work, including the inspector general who could deliver a report in May or June, before replicating their review. He said he was not starting an investigation into the F.B.I. or any other law enforcement agency, per se, but he did allude to several of the bureau’s former leaders who oversaw the opening of the Russia inquiry. “To the extent there were any issues at the F.B.I., I do not view it as a problem that is endemic to the F.B.I.,” Mr. Barr said. “I think there was probably failure among a group of leaders there at the upper echelon.” Mr. Barr did not present evidence to back up his statement, and he declined to share details about which investigative actions concerned him. The F.B.I. obtained a secret surveillance warrant to spy on one former Trump aide, Carter Page, after he left the campaign. Republicans in Congress have questioned the legality of that warrant because it used unverified Democrat-funded opposition research compiled into a dossier by Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer. But a judge approved it, and it was not clear whether any laws were broken. Both Dana Boente, now the F.B.I. general counsel, and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, signed the FISA renewal application on Mr. Page. The bureau sought the wiretap on Mr. Page because of his previous contacts with a Russian intelligence officer in 2013 and material in the dossier. Among claims that Mr. Steele compiled from sources was that during a visit to Moscow in July 2016, Mr. Page secretly met a Russian official promising compromising information about Hillary Clinton — an accusation that Mr. Page has denied. The F.B.I. also used a confidential informant to collect information on Trump campaign associates, which prompted more accusations of spying by the president. Mr. Trump or people close to him have leveled charges that have not borne out, including that President Barack Obama had ordered wiretaps on Trump Tower in Manhattan. Defenders of the F.B.I. have objected to the notion that it spied on the Trump campaign. The F.B.I. and Justice Department, they say, waited to seek a court order permitting it to wiretap Mr. Page until after he left the campaign and was on the verge of returning to Russia. Still, the wiretap order enabled F.B.I. agents to obtain and read older emails in Mr. Page’s account, including when he was working with the campaign. The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has asked those involved in that effort why they did not use a so-called filter team to review the messages and screen out any sensitive but irrelevant information before adding them to the Russia investigation case file. However, there appeared to be no rule requiring such a step, according to a person familiar with the inquiry. The inspector general has also asked about the handling of F.B.I. informants, including Mr. Steele and Stefan A. Halper, an American academic who teaches in Britain. After the F.B.I. opened the Russia investigation in late July 2016, agents asked Mr. Halper to gather information on Mr. Page and George Papadopoulos, another former Trump campaign adviser. Mr. Halper had also spoken to Mr. Page at a symposium that month, which has raised suspicions by critics of the F.B.I. that the investigation started earlier than the bureau has said. But that earlier encounter was a coincidence, according to a former federal law enforcement official. Mr. Barr appeared to be responding generally to those episodes, many of which have been the subject of news reports. “I feel I have an obligation to make sure that government power is not abused,” he said. “I think that is one of the principal roles of the attorney general.” Democrats involved in Congress’s investigations of Russia’s election interference quickly chastised Mr. Barr for using the term spying in a way that they believe feeds a right-wing conspiracy of F.B.I. wrongdoing. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said it appeared he was “going off the rails” to protect Mr. Trump. Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, accused Mr. Barr of giving “a wink and a nod” to a “long-debunked ‘spying’ conspiracy.” And at one point, Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, pressed Mr. Barr on whether he had “specific evidence of anything improper in the counterintelligence investigation.” Mr. Barr said he did not. “I have no specific evidence that I would cite right now,” he said. “I do have questions about it.” But when Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, asked Mr. Barr if he had intended to use the term spying — a term the senator said might “cause everybody in the cable news ecosystem to freak out” — Mr. Barr rephrased his statement. “I’m not sure of all of the connotations of that word that you’re referring to,” the attorney general said, then he added, “I want to make sure there was no unauthorized surveillance.” Mr. Barr, who began his career at the C.I.A., did not intend to imply that spying was inherently wrong, according to a person who has discussed the matter with him but was not authorized to share their conversation. Mr. Barr sees no technical difference between that term and surveillance. He indicated that at issue was not the act of surveilling but whether officials followed proper procedures when they decided to gather intelligence on Trump’s associates in 2016. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, elicited a response from Mr. Barr that invoked another era. When she asked why Mr. Barr was going to review the origins of the Russia investigation, he answered that “the generation I grew up in, which is the Vietnam War period, you know, people were all concerned about spying on antiwar people and so forth by the government.” Katie Benner and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    ", "id": "5cae6f7a49f0eacbf1f827ec", "date": "2019-04-10T22:33:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr and the Mueller Report", "full_text": " letter A reader says William Barr should not be confirmed as attorney general if he refuses to commit to the full release of the investigative report. To the Editor: Re “Barr Makes Promise to Senate: He’ll Let Mueller Finish Inquiry” (front page, Jan. 16): Nothing less than the future well-being of the Republic lies in the balance as the Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing on the nomination of William Barr for attorney general.  It is evident that President Trump is acting in the interests of a foreign power and contrary to American interests. It is unthinkable to confirm a nominee for attorney general who equivocates about the release of the extensive investigative report by Robert Mueller that every member of Congress must be permitted to see in full.  If Mr. Barr cannot straight out commit to the release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to Congress, with some possible redactions of the names of nongovernment individuals for reasons of their safety, then Mr. Barr must be unanimously voted down in committee. This is not the time to play with fire.  Congress must have the information it needs to fully evaluate the role that Mr. Trump has played in what is the undeniable large-scale undermining of American security. Joe GrossmanBoulder, Colo.", "id": "5c3f7f733a125f5075c04c2f", "date": "2019-01-16T19:01:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Three Takeaways From the Barr Letter", "full_text": " We still haven’t seen the Mueller report. Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. There’s a lot of discussion about what the Mueller report says. But almost none of it is based on the actual report. It’s based on the Barr letter. And the Barr letter is not an objective summary of the Mueller report. Here are my three big takeaways: 1. Barr should release much more information. William Barr, the attorney general, works for the president. By releasing just a short summary on a matter of such importance, he comes off as a cross between a law enforcement officer and a spin doctor. It’s certainly conceivable that parts of Robert Mueller’s full report — the one that remains secret — would need to be redacted for national security or other reasons. But Barr’s four-page summary is unacceptable. So is his vague explanation that he will release as much of the report as he can. Until we get more information, the most reasonable assumption is that Barr is trying to protect Trump by hiding the full report. For more: Neal Katyal, a former Justice Department official who helped write the special counsel regulations, argues that Barr has left out crucial information, including justification for his claim Trump did not obstruct justice. Congress, Katyal writes in The Times, “must first demand the release of the Mueller report, so that Americans can see the evidence for themselves. Then, it must call Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller to testify.” 2. Trump critics should keep an open mind on Russia.  I’m obviously not a fan of the president. And I think it’s important for all of Trump’s critics to accept the possibility — the likelihood, at this point — that his campaign did not work together with Russia in a meaningful way. Yes, the Trump campaign seemed shockingly and unpatriotically open to doing so. But that’s not the same as following through. Progressives shouldn’t go down the Fox News road and start adopting their own factually weak or outright false conspiracy theories, like those involving Barack Obama’s birthplace, voter fraud, Uranium One, George Soros, Solyndra and on and on. 3. Trump is unfit for office. He directed a criminal conspiracy to break campaign finance laws. He has used the presidency for personal enrichment. He has undermined democracy. He has damaged America’s global standing. He has lied repeatedly to the American people. He has obstructed justice. (Barr’s statement to the contrary is brief and unpersuasive.) When I wrote a Sunday Review piece earlier this year arguing that Trump had violated his oath of office and should no longer be president, I listed four main reasons. None of them involved the idea that his campaign colluded with Russia. The Mueller investigation led to criminal convictions of the president’s former campaign chairman, his longtime personal lawyer and his former national security adviser. It added an enormous amount of evidence to the case against Trump’s fitness for office. And that’s before the Trump administration has allowed the public to see the full results of the investigation.  [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] For more … The Mueller report could be full of good news for the president — or it could have found plenty of evidence of collusion that simply didn’t rise to the level of a prosecutable crime, Mikhaila Fogel, Quinta Jurecic, Susan Hennessey and their colleagues at Lawfare explain. “There is a huge range of conduct and findings that would be consistent with this top-line summary,” they write. Barr’s summary doesn’t answer why Russia went to such lengths to help Trump win, writes The Atlantic’s David Frum: “Mueller hasn’t provided answers, so much as he has posed a question.” The Politico Magazine editor Blake Hounshell asks a related question: What’s behind Trump’s unique affinity for Russian president Vladimir Putin? “It seems quite clear now that Trump did not collude with Putin to game the 2016 presidential election. Why he still seems to want to collude with Putin to reshape U.S. foreign policy remains a mystery.” Writing in Slate, the legal expert Richard Hasen poses another unanswered question: Why did Mueller not charge Paul Manafort and Donald Trump Jr. for encouraging Russian officials to give them dirt on Hillary Clinton? “Mueller’s reasoning matters, and we need to see the full report,” Hasen writes. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c98c66149f0eacbf105ee3c", "date": "2019-03-25T12:13:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Some on Mueller’s Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr Revealed", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Some of Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William P. Barr failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and that they were more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr indicated, according to government officials and others familiar with their simmering frustrations. At stake in the dispute — the first evidence of tension between Mr. Barr and the special counsel’s office — is who shapes the public’s initial understanding of one of the most consequential government investigations in American history. Some members of Mr. Mueller’s team are concerned that, because Mr. Barr created the first narrative of the special counsel’s findings, Americans’ views will have hardened before the investigation’s conclusions become public. Mr. Barr has said he will move quickly to release the nearly 400-page report but needs time to scrub out confidential information. The special counsel’s investigators had already written multiple summaries of the report, and some team members believe that Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in the four-page letter he wrote on March 24 laying out their main conclusions, according to government officials familiar with the investigation. Mr. Barr only briefly cited the special counsel’s work in his letter. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Lisa Tobin and Paige Cowett, and edited by Larissa Anderson The attorney general turned a report of nearly 400 pages into a four-page summary. Members of the special counsel’s team say something was lost. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller team sent its report to the attorney general, William Barr. The attorney general sent a summary of that report to Congress. Now, new reporting shows members of Mueller’s team feel that Barr’s summary did not reflect the report they wrote. It’s Thursday, April 4. So take us back to the beginning of last week. What do we know at that point? nicholas fandos So we knew that Bill Barr, taking Bob Mueller’s 300- to 400-page report, had gone through it extensively and boiled down what he called the “principal conclusions” to just four pages. michael barbaro Nick Fandos covers Congress. Mike Schmidt covers national security. michael schmidt We were in this unusual situation where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, had sent his report to the attorney general, said, I found no evidence that the campaign conspired with Russia to impact the election. But he declined to make a decision on obstruction. nicholas fandos And what he said was Mueller didn’t reach what Barr called a “traditional prosecutorial decision.” In other words, Mueller presented evidence for the fact that the president may have obstructed justice but didn’t go as far as to conclude that he had. He essentially punted to the attorney general’s office. michael schmidt And in this case, by Mueller not reaching a determination, he leaves the door open for Barr to come in to say, O.K., Mueller didn’t make a determination on this issue of obstruction. He did on collusion. I’m going to look at all the facts. And he makes his determination — no case to be made here on both of these issues. The problem, though, is that the perception is that Mueller, the independent investigator who’s there to do an inquiry free of politics, has not made a call on this central question. But Barr, the president’s appointee, who’s been there just for a few months, is making the decision. So the question is, is the fix in? Why is it, if Mueller didn’t come to an answer, the attorney general did? michael barbaro So at the beginning of last week, we know that Mueller made the unusual decision not to make a call. And Barr made the unusual decision to make a call. And the question is, why? michael schmidt It’s not unusual that Barr made a call. The Justice Department is there to decide whether people broke the law or not. And he was doing that. What’s different and unusual here is that Barr and Mueller don’t look like they’re on the same page. [music]  michael schmidt Mueller said, I can’t make a determination on this issue. And Barr did. So why is it that they looked at it differently? Why was it that Mueller, the prosecutor here, didn’t do the one thing that prosecutors at the Justice Department do, which is make a call? nicholas fandos And that was the question that we’ve spent the last week trying to figure out. What is the difference here? What is the evidence that they’re looking at? And why did Mueller and Barr make the decisions that they made around this question of obstruction of justice? michael barbaro And what have we now learned? nicholas fandos What we’ve now learned is that nobody’s happy. The team that was working — or at least some of the team that was working with Bob Mueller feels that Barr stepped in and filled the vacuum in a way that didn’t properly capture what their 22-month investigation found. And Barr’s team feels that Bob Mueller fell short of doing his job. michael barbaro So let’s start with the Barr side. Explain more about why the attorney general and those around him are upset. michael schmidt So in not reaching a decision on obstruction of justice, Barr has to go out on his own and make that determination without the top cover of the independent investigator who went out and was supposed to make a determination on whether the president broke the law. michael barbaro And what do you mean by “top cover“? michael schmidt One of the reasons you have a special counsel is to insulate an investigation from politics and then, when the investigation is concluded, have a way of holding up the product of the inquiry, the fruits of it, to the public and saying, look, this was done free of politics. We assessed this matter based on the facts. And now you have a result that is exposed, at least in part, to the perception that the president’s guy made the decision. michael barbaro The attorney general. michael schmidt Correct. nicholas fandos Undercutting one of the key points of Mueller’s appointment in the first place. michael barbaro And you’re saying that the people in the Justice Department and that Barr himself are upset to be put in that position? michael schmidt Well, the system’s not working the way it’s supposed to. You had Mueller there for one reason — yea or nay on crimes. And on one of these central questions, he couldn’t get there. And by stepping back and saying, I don’t know, it allows at least the Democrats to say, what? How was this decision made? How did they get to this? How is it that the president’s political appointee was the ultimate decider? nicholas fandos And it gives them real credence to go and say, we need to see all the evidence. We need to see the whole file here because the president’s handpicked man made this decision. Maybe we’d reach a different conclusion if we looked at the evidence. Bob Mueller seems to have. michael barbaro So then why did Barr choose to make a call on obstruction of justice if he knew and was upset that this was going to be seen as hyper-political and that it would fan the flames of Democrats in Congress? nicholas fandos The problem for Barr was that when he got the report and looked at the evidence, to him, it was a pretty clear case that you would not press this kind of charge, that the president hadn’t obstructed justice. Now, you’ve got to remember that Barr comes to the job with a pretty expansive view of executive power. As Democrats made famous, he wrote a memo before he was appointed attorney general arguing that certain acts by the president shouldn’t be construed as obstruction of justice. They’re part of his executive powers. And so he looked at this and, I mean, he can’t make the same decision that Mueller did. Somebody has to make a choice about whether or not this is a chargeable offense. And he looked at it and says, well, in our judgment and this team’s judgment, it’s not. michael barbaro So Barr reads the report and thinks, what are you talking about it’s not clear whether or not there was obstruction of justice? There, in his mind, clearly wasn’t. nicholas fandos Barr does acknowledge that there is evidence, basically, of behavior that could be construed as obstructive. He gives credence to what Mueller is presenting but says, when you add it all up, it doesn’t tip into — michael schmidt Criminality. nicholas fandos — criminal obstructive territory. michael barbaro Right. And while it felt political for Barr to reach a conclusion, to make a call that Mueller wouldn’t, I have to think it would have felt even more political in Barr’s mind for Congress to be the one to perform that role. And so he was upset to have to make this call, but, it sounds like, felt that he had to. michael schmidt I don’t know if he’s upset as much as he looks at this situation and says, this is not the way it’s supposed to be working. Someone needs to make a decision on whether the president broke the law. I’ll step in and do that. And I think I can do that based on the facts. nicholas fandos And Congress can still play a role. I’m redacting the report. I’ll give it to you with sensitive information blacked out. And then you can make your own judgment. But the public has an intense interest in this. And I’ve got to say something. And I decide whether acts broke the law or not. And I don’t think this one did. michael barbaro Do we know if Mueller’s team expected Barr to make this call on obstruction of justice after they declined to do so? nicholas fandos We don’t know precisely what the Mueller team expected on this obstruction question. It seems that they were not clear in communicating to the Justice Department what they wanted. It may not have mattered anyway. But what we do know is that after Barr came out with this four-page summary, which essentially exonerated the president on collusion and said he did not break the law on obstruction, some members of Mr. Mueller’s team felt that he had inadequately and only partially represented the work of their 22-month investigation. michael barbaro So this is the other side of your reporting — that not only was the Barr side disappointed with the Mueller side, the Mueller side was disappointed with the Barr side. nicholas fandos What we have learned is that since Barr made his public statement about a week ago, members of the Mueller team have told associates that they feel, essentially, that his work — if it wasn’t misrepresentative of theirs — didn’t give the full picture, which they believe is more damaging to the president than the attorney general’s letter lets on. Now, we are not saying that every member of the Mueller team is frustrated by this. We don’t know what Bob Mueller himself thinks. He remains one of the black boxes at the center of this investigation. But there are members of the team who were involved in the decision-making around these issues that we’ve been talking about who have watched and been disappointed and angry about how it’s being characterized. michael barbaro And what is the focus of their disappointment, to the degree you understand it? nicholas fandos So when they read Bill Barr’s concise four-page letter, they were frustrated that he had not drawn more from their own work. And in fact, what we discovered in reporting this piece out is that they had prepared summaries of their own work that were part of the report that they handed over to the Justice Department a couple of weeks ago and felt that some of that material could have easily been drawn into what Mr. Barr handed over. So not that he shouldn’t have made a decision about whether the president obstructed justice or not in a criminal sense, but that concurrent with that, he should have put out more of their evidence or analysis to fill out the public picture. The Justice Department says those summaries had sensitive information in them, classified information, secretive grand jury information that couldn’t become public, and ultimately didn’t use any of it. michael schmidt So what Mueller’s folks are essentially saying is, hey, we wrote these summaries. If you were going to go out and say something about this investigation, and you were going to do something as extreme or as declarative as clearing the president, why is it that you didn’t include some of the things that we found? michael barbaro And specifically, why didn’t you include some stuff that we found that was pretty damning? You’re making it seem like the president didn’t do anything wrong. michael schmidt Donald Trump has come out in the days after Barr’s declaration and said the Mueller report was beautiful. And it completely exonerates him. If you’re an investigator who spent the last two years looking at Donald Trump, and you think there’s a lot of questionable behavior there, that is something that is going to irritate you mightily. michael barbaro I mean, do either of you think that the Mueller people have a legitimate point here? Or is this a classic case of pride of authorship? They wanted to see their work in the public summary. nicholas fandos I don’t think that we fully know. What seems clear in our reporting is that there was no specific communication or agreement by the Mueller team to the Barr team — you should use these things, or we want these things to be out. They seem to have had an intention. And they certainly now have a regret about it. But we don’t know what interaction there was in the actual decision-making process that happened that weekend two weeks ago. michael barbaro Well, so why do we think that Barr chose not to include more of what was in these summaries, especially the negative material, in his four-page summary? michael schmidt I think there’s one big, broad reason and another contemporary reason, the broad reason being that Barr and many Justice Department officials and, for many years, prosecutors believe that if they decide not to charge someone, the fruits of the investigation should not be just thrown out there for the public or for the enemies of the person who were investigated. michael barbaro Dirty laundry should not be aired if the subject of those dirty laundry are not charged with a crime. michael schmidt If you cannot meet this incredibly high bar of bringing a federal prosecution, that doesn’t mean you then get to just take the trash and just throw it out in the street and let the public rummage through it. michael barbaro And Mike, by the contemporary example you referred to, I’m assuming you’re talking about James Comey. michael schmidt I’m talking about the July 2016 press conference that James Comey held. It’s right in the heat of the presidential election. He stands up and says, we, the F.B.I., have done this investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email account. We don’t think there is a case to be made here. But we found some very questionable behavior in how she handled sensitive national security secrets. The press conference was seen as very damaging to Clinton even though a case was never made. michael barbaro And so you’re saying that Barr’s view would be, I’m not going to be the one to replicate that by drawing from these Mueller team summaries and putting those out into the public sphere. michael schmidt Correct. We don’t use criminal investigations to go out and find damaging things that may not be crimes that we then simply release to the public to be used against someone. nicholas fandos The problem is, this was never a normal or average criminal investigation. It has broad national security implications. And it has implications for almost every decision that’s made at the highest levels of the government. michael schmidt This is more about a pathway of how you deal with the president’s conduct. And what it appears from the Mueller side is that they’re saying, look, this is the president of the United States. There’s some conduct here that we think the public and Congress should see. And O.K., Justice Department, it may not be criminal. But this is the president. And this needs to be examined more thoroughly by the political process and by Congress. It’s about a pathway of dealing with the president. nicholas fandos And Bill Barr doesn’t seem to disagree with that, fundamentally. He said throughout that he wants to make as much of this report public as possible. But he doesn’t think that that absolves him of the Justice Department’s role of saying whether or not the president or his campaign broke the law. And so he’s grappling with the Justice Department’s aversion to talk about individuals that it’s not saying broke the law. But yet he knows that the public and the Congress want and probably are owed more information about what did happen. And so he’s kind of operating somewhere in the middle of those two things. michael schmidt The difference here is that if I was under investigation, and the Justice Department determined that I didn’t break the law, then there’s no other process that really needs to be dealt with me. Maybe my company needs to decide whether I get fired or not for that conduct. In this instance, there’s another issue with the president. O.K., the president didn’t break the law. But maybe the president did things with his power that the public should know about, Congress should know about, and need to be more closely examined. Because maybe it’s not just about breaking the law. It’s about how he conducted himself as president. And does Congress need to deal with that? And what we are starting to see from Mueller’s side is this frustration that, hey, we think there’s some bad stuff that happened here. But by Barr coming out and not disclosing that but saying the president didn’t break the law, he is casting the die on how the public will later look at the president’s conduct. It will say that for several weeks after we finished our report, the only thing that was out there was Bill Barr saying the president didn’t break the law, and the president turning around and saying, I was fully exonerated. And they’re saying, hey, America, we think more of this process needs to play out. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt So this all comes down to the vexing question of, how do we investigate a sitting president? And how is that done in a way that the public has the utmost confidence in that? And in that is this tension between how much independence the investigator should have. In Nixon, that pendulum swung too far in the president’s direction. In the Starr investigation of Clinton, it went the other way. The investigator had too much power. And here, between Mueller and Barr’s teams, they are fighting that same fight and have different understandings of how this should all be dealt with. And it’s the same issue that we’ve been looking at for 50 years, just the latest episode of it. michael barbaro So inside of one presidential investigation, these two teams are embodying all the tensions that have basically been present since Watergate. nicholas fandos Correct. michael schmidt It’s how much you can tell the public, and how is apparent misconduct by the president dealt with? And there’s no clear pathway on that. So whatever Barr does will be viewed by one side as political and laying on the brakes for the president. Whatever Mueller does will be viewed by the president’s enemies as trying to get him. And the confidence in that process then erodes. And it’s messy. And it’s hard to figure out. What are the real facts here? What really happened? michael barbaro But at this point, we’re just talking about the summary that Bill Barr sent to Congress. We’re still waiting on the full report. So won’t this tension that you’re describing eventually be more or less resolved when we learn how much information we’ll ultimately have access to? nicholas fandos It may be. And we may see a very different set of facts at the end of the day. But I think the question here is about who sets the narrative for the intervening period of time. It may end up being a month before we see a fuller version of the Mueller report. And for that time, Bill Barr’s conclusion that the president didn’t break the law is going to be the dominant narrative. And I think that what we’re hearing from members of the Mueller team is a concern that by the time their fuller work does come out, the narrative is baked — so much so that even if it shows, for instance, that the president didn’t break the law but abused his office or conducted acts that Congress will deem inappropriate for his office, that there’s not room to have a full debate around that, that the conclusions about the work that they did for 22 months will have been prejudged at that point, and that it won’t quite matter what the report says for the president’s political fate. michael barbaro Nick, Mike, thank you very much. nicholas fandos Thank you guys. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (jerry nadler) The committee has a job to do. The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct. michael barbaro On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize the use of subpoenas to obtain a full copy of the Mueller report. archived recording (jerry nadler) That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence. michael barbaro The committee’s chairman, Democratic representative Jerry Nadler of New York, said he would not immediately issue a subpoena. But his power to do so will intensify pressure on the attorney general, William Barr, to quickly release an unredacted copy of the report. archived recording (jerry nadler) I will give him time to change his mind. But if we cannot reach an accommodation, then we will have no choice but to issue subpoenas for these materials. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [music]  michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of deadly terror attacks involving white extremists has found that at least a third of them were inspired by fellow white men who carried out similar attacks and had either professed admiration for them or interest in their tactics. In one case, a school shooter in New Mexico corresponded with a gunman who attacked a mall in Munich. All together, the two men killed 11 people. The connections between the killers crossed continents and highlight how the internet and social media have spread white extremism. And — archived recording (joe biden) I’ve always tried to be — in my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection. That’s my responsibility, I think. I shake hands. I hug people. I grab men and women by the shoulders and say, you can do this. michael barbaro On Wednesday, former vice president Joe Biden responded to a series of complaints from women that his close physical contact had made them uncomfortable. archived recording (joe biden) Our social norms have begun to change. They’ve shifted. And the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset. And I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying. I understand it. michael barbaro In a video message sent as Biden prepares for a possible presidential run, he defended his behavior but said he is able to change. archived recording (joe biden) But I’ll always believe governing, quite frankly — life, for that matter — is about connecting. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. However, the special counsel’s office never asked Mr. Barr to release the summaries soon after he received the report, a person familiar with the investigation said. And the Justice Department quickly determined that the summaries contain sensitive information, like classified material, secret grand-jury testimony and information related to current federal investigations that must remain confidential, according to two government officials. Federal prosecutors are pursuing a number of criminal inquiries that grew out of the investigation of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Barr was also wary of departing from Justice Department practice not to disclose derogatory details in closing an investigation, according to two government officials familiar with Mr. Barr’s thinking. They pointed to the decision by James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, to harshly criticize Hillary Clinton in 2016 while announcing that he was recommending no charges in the inquiry into her email practices. The officials and others interviewed declined to flesh out why some of the special counsel’s investigators viewed their findings as potentially more damaging for the president than Mr. Barr explained, although the report is believed to examine Mr. Trump’s efforts to thwart the investigation. It was unclear how much discussion Mr. Mueller and his investigators had with senior Justice Department officials about how their findings would be made public. It was also unclear how widespread the vexation is among the special counsel team, which included 19 lawyers, about 40 F.B.I. agents and other personnel. At the same time, Mr. Barr and his advisers have expressed their own frustrations about Mr. Mueller and his team. Mr. Barr and other Justice Department officials believe the special counsel’s investigators fell short of their task by declining to decide whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the inquiry, according to the two government officials. After Mr. Mueller made no judgment on the obstruction matter, Mr. Barr stepped in to declare that he himself had cleared Mr. Trump of wrongdoing. Representatives for the Justice Department and the special counsel declined to comment on Wednesday on views inside both Mr. Mueller’s office and the Justice Department. They pointed to departmental regulations requiring Mr. Mueller to file a confidential report to the attorney general detailing prosecution decisions and to Mr. Barr’s separate vow to send a redacted version of that report to Congress. Under the regulations, Mr. Barr can publicly release as much of the document as he deems appropriate. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. A debate over how the special counsel’s conclusions are represented has played out in public as well as in recent weeks, with Democrats in Congress accusing Mr. Barr of intervening to color the outcome of the investigation in the president’s favor. In his letter to Congress outlining the report’s chief conclusions, Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. While Mr. Mueller made no decision on his other main question, whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry, he explicitly stopped short of exonerating Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller’s decision to skip a prosecutorial judgment “leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote. He and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, decided that the evidence was insufficient to conclude that Mr. Trump had committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under criticism for sharing so little. But according to officials familiar with the attorney general’s thinking, he and his aides limited the details they revealed because they were worried about wading into political territory. Mr. Barr and his advisers expressed concern that if they included derogatory information about Mr. Trump while clearing him, they would face a storm of criticism like what Mr. Comey endured in the Clinton investigation. Legal experts attacked Mr. Comey at the time for violating Justice Department practice to keep confidential any negative information about anyone uncovered during investigations. The practice exists to keep from unfairly sullying people’s reputations without giving them a chance to respond in court. Mr. Rosenstein cited the handling of the Clinton case in a memo the White House used to rationalize Mr. Trump’s firing of Mr. Comey. Though it was not clear what findings the special counsel’s investigators viewed as troubling for the president, Mr. Barr has suggested that Mr. Mueller may have found evidence of malfeasance in investigating possible obstruction of justice. “The report sets out evidence on both sides of the question,” Mr. Barr wrote in his March 24 letter. Mr. Mueller examined Mr. Trump’s attempts to maintain control over the investigation, including his firing of Mr. Comey and his attempt to oust Mr. Mueller and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to install a loyalist to oversee the inquiry. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The fallout from Mr. Barr’s letter outlining the Russia investigation’s main findings overshadowed his intent to make public as much of the entire report as possible, a goal he has stressed since his confirmation hearing in January. He reiterated to lawmakers on Friday that he wanted both Congress and the public to read the report and said that the department would by mid-April furnish a version with sensitive material blacked out. He offered to testify on Capitol Hill soon after turning over the report. Mr. Barr, who took office in February, has shown flashes of frustration over how the unveiling of the investigation’s findings has unfolded. In his follow-up letter to lawmakers on Friday, he chafed at how the news media and some lawmakers had characterized his March 24 letter. Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, and Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing in January that he trusted Mr. Mueller to conduct an impartial investigation. He said he told Mr. Trump that Mr. Mueller was a “straight shooter who should be dealt with as such.” Mr. Mueller served as the head of the Justice Department’s criminal division when Mr. Barr was attorney general under George Bush, and their families are friends. Mr. Barr’s promises of transparency have done little to appease Democrats who control the House. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman use a subpoena to try to compel Mr. Barr to hand over a full copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence to Congress. The chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, has not said when he will use the subpoena, but made clear on Wednesday that he did not trust Mr. Barr’s characterization of what Mr. Mueller’s team found. “The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct,” Mr. Nadler said. “That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence.” Republicans, who have embraced Mr. Barr’s letter clearing Mr. Trump, have accused the Democrats of trying to prolong the cloud over his presidency and urged them to move on. Mr. Trump has fully embraced Mr. Barr’s version of events. For days, he has pronounced the outcome of the investigation a “complete and total exoneration” and called for the Justice Department and his allies on Capitol Hill to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for opening the inquiry. Katie Benner and Adam Goldman contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionNeal K. Katyal   ", "id": "5ca5406149f0eacbf1f80bbf", "date": "2019-04-03T23:21:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr’s Declaration on Trump Puts Justice Dept. Back in Political Crucible", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — William P. Barr was a lawyer in private practice in June when he wrote an unsolicited memo to the Justice Department that was sharply skeptical of the special counsel’s inquiry into whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice. Nine months later, Mr. Trump is cleared of that offense, and he has Mr. Barr, his new attorney general, to thank. Mr. Barr’s decision to declare that evidence fell short of proving Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the Russia inquiry was an extraordinary outcome to a narrative that has unspooled over nearly two years. Robert S. Mueller III was appointed as special counsel to remove the threat of political interference from an investigation involving the president, but he reached no conclusion on the key question of whether Mr. Trump committed an obstruction-of-justice offense. Mr. Barr stepped in to make the determination, bringing the specter of politics back into the case. Senior Justice Department officials defended his decision as prudent and within his purview, but it reignited a debate about the role of American law enforcement in politically charged federal investigations that has roiled since James B. Comey, as F.B.I. director in 2016, excoriated Hillary Clinton even in announcing that he was recommending she not be charged over her handling of classified emails. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Michael Simon Johnson and edited by Paige Cowett The special counsel came to no conclusion on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice. The attorney general, a recent political appointee, stepped in. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The special counsel was supposed to make the decision about whether President Trump committed a crime. Why did the attorney general do it instead? It’s Tuesday, March 26. Mike Schmidt, it has been 48 hours since the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent his summary of the special counsel’s report to congressional leaders. Where are you at in your thinking about all this? michael schmidt In a certain way, I’m starting to think that the special counsel regulations, the way that this investigation was set up, has failed. michael barbaro What do you mean failed? Do you mean, because this investigation didn’t produce criminal charges against the president? michael schmidt No, no, no. It’s not about that. It’s about the perception of politics in criminal decisions. Bob Mueller, the special counsel, operated under certain regulations that were designed to protect him and his investigation but also give the public assurances that investigators who were free of politics pursued the facts. In this case, there’s a perception problem. michael barbaro What do you mean by perception problem? michael schmidt The special counsel is supposed to go out, look into the issues that are in question — in this case, collusion and obstruction of justice — and no matter how hard the questions they are looking at are, make a determination about whether someone broke the law or not. archived recording 1 Because obviously, Mueller did not feel comfortable making a decision in either direction on obstruction. archived recording 2 Mueller said, you know what, I can’t decide. It’s up to you. michael schmidt In the case of the president, Mueller made no conclusion with respect to obstruction. archived recording 1 I would love to learn more about what was happening behind the scenes and why Mueller decided to punt. archived recording 2 Prosecutors get paid to make determinations. That’s what we do. michael schmidt So that meant that the special counsel, the person who had been put there to protect themselves from politics, had no determination. archived recording That’s not the job of the prosecutor. The job of the prosecutor is to decide yes or no. michael schmidt And that left it up to the political appointees, the attorney general and deputy attorney general, people who had been placed there by Donald Trump. archived recording Barr says he and the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, concluded that that conduct did not reach the threshold of a crime. michael barbaro So you’re saying that because Mueller punted the decision on obstruction of justice to Barr, and it was Barr who then cleared the president of that charge, the special counsel failed because there was no apolitical figure reaching a conclusion on one of the central questions of the investigation. michael schmidt Correct. Part of the reason the special counsel is there is to give the public the assurance that a investigator who’s not politically tied to the person under investigation is doing the work and following the facts. And in this case, that person, Mueller, said, I can’t come to a determination on this, and kicked it up to the folks above him who are the political appointees. By not reaching a conclusion, Mueller left the door open for Barr to come in and make a determination that he didn’t think there was enough to say the president broke the law. But Barr has another perception problem. michael barbaro What’s that? michael schmidt Back in 2018, Bill Barr, who had been the attorney general under George H. W. Bush and was now semi-retired, he, unprompted, wrote a memo that ended up in the hands of the Trump legal team that essentially said there is a very, very high bar for a president to be charged with obstruction of justice. And in that argument, he says that in order to prove obstruction, you also have to prove the underlying crime. In this case, collusion. So to make a case, you have to be able to establish both. michael barbaro And Barr writes this long before his attorney general. What is meaningful about that memo and that legal logic about obstruction of justice now? michael schmidt In the letter he sends to Congress this weekend in which he explains the decision on what they did with the president on obstruction, he says that one of the reasons that it’s so difficult to make this case is that they can’t show that the president was part of collusion. michael barbaro An underlying crime that would justify a charge of obstruction of justice. michael schmidt Correct. I actually want to — can I read from it? michael barbaro Yeah. michael schmidt In his letter, he said, quote, “In making this determination, we noted that the special counsel recognized that ‘the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference,’ and that, while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” michael barbaro So just to translate that for us, what exactly is he saying? michael schmidt He’s saying that unless you can show that the president was trying to obstruct to cover up another crime, then the obstruction is sort of hollow. It doesn’t really resonate because there’s nothing really to cover up. michael barbaro So that is a clear echo to the original Barr memo from 2018 written to the Trump administration. And it sounds like what you’re saying is that because Barr wrote this memo before he was nominated as attorney general, the White House knew he held this position when it came to obstruction of justice. And the fact that it ended up being that legal interpretation that is used to help clear the president of wrongdoing when it comes to obstruction of justice — that starts to feel quite political. michael schmidt Here’s the problem. Barr may be right. He may have come to the correct conclusion based on the law and the fact. But because Mueller took a pass in this highly weird thing where he didn’t want to make a call about whether the president broke the law on obstruction, it ended up in Barr’s hands. And he looks like the ultimate and only decision maker. And he, because of politics, has perception issues on this decision. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about the actual conclusion that Barr reached. What do you make, Mike, of his rationale? Is there a broad legal consensus around Barr’s argument here that obstruction of justice depends on an underlying crime? michael schmidt I think prosecutors would say that they don’t want to bring cases against folks who did not obstruct an actual criminal act. Legally, you could make the case, but most prosecutors wouldn’t want to because it’s not worth their time and energy to go after someone who is trying to cover up something that’s not criminal. michael barbaro Got it. michael schmidt But in this case, I would say that there were crimes that the president may have wanted to cover up. michael barbaro Hmm. Which ones? michael schmidt Well — archived recording Breaking news. President Trump’s former longtime attorney and fixer, Michael Cohen, pleading guilty to eight counts of campaign finance violation, including, and importantly, hush money payments to Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal — hush money payments that Cohen said then-candidate Donald Trump directed. Cohen’s stunning words today, and I quote, “in coordination and at the direction of a candidate for federal office.” michael schmidt The president has been named essentially as an unindicted co-conspirator in Michael Cohen’s payments to women before the election for violating campaign finance. archived recording Prosecutors say the hush money payments Cohen made violate campaign finance laws. President Trump calls them a simple private transaction. michael schmidt Donald Trump knew about those payments in May, June, July of 2017. So if you’re the president and Bob Mueller comes along and you know that you made these payments, you think, well, if this thing really gets out of hand, I could have some problems. So in the summer of 2017 the president’s talking about trying to fire Mueller. archived recording Now, according to The New York Times and The Washington Post, the White House is laying the groundwork to try to discredit or undermine Mueller’s investigation. michael schmidt Why was he really talking about that? Was it because of Russia? Was it because it was simply a distraction? Or did he want to ensure that Mueller didn’t go too far into his personal finances? archived recording Multiple U.S. officials tell NBC News Mueller is gathering documents involving the financial records and businesses of dealings close to the Trump campaign, something the president says is a red line — a red line, except following the money is what Mueller does. michael schmidt Barr says, look, he had nothing to cover up on Russia, but his same Justice Department has essentially said he’s an unindicted co-conspirator in a campaign finance case. The Justice Department is looking at his inaugural committee — archived recording Putting all information related to inaugural donors, vendors, contractors, bank accounts. michael schmidt — and his businesses. And Mueller’s investigation has led to great embarrassment for the president. archived recording 1 President Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn just hours away from finding out if he’ll go to prison for lying to the F.B.I. about his Russia contacts. archived recording 2 Also, breaking tonight, the president’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, found guilty on eight counts. archived recording 3 Roger Stone, longtime Trump associate and adviser, was taken into custody by the F.B.I. michael schmidt Even though he was cleared on collusion, more than a handful of his advisors and associates have pled guilty to different charges. So was there really nothing to obstruct? michael barbaro So you’re saying that Barr’s rationale that there is no obstruction, because there were no crimes to obstruct, doesn’t really hold up, because there were crimes, they just weren’t the crimes of coordinating with Russia to influence the election? michael schmidt I’m saying that a day after Barr sent the letter, as we look at it, that’s another part of it that doesn’t make complete sense yet. michael barbaro Mike, is that one more way in which, by kicking the decision to Bill Barr, the special counsel put this in the political realm of interpretation by political actors in a political system that might have been better left to an independent figure as the special counsel rules envisioned? michael schmidt It means that instead of Mueller explaining the determination, Barr is doing it. And that just exposes the decision to the politics that Mueller was there to protect it from. And the head-scratching part of it is, so you went through this whole exercise of creating a special counsel. michael barbaro To be apolitical. michael schmidt To be apolitical. And in the end, the special counsel takes a pass, and it ends up right back in the hands of the political appointees. Well, why did you need a special counsel? michael barbaro Right. And to that point, I guess the question is, why did Robert Mueller kick this question of obstruction of justice to the attorney general knowing full well everything you just explained, that that would make whatever decision Barr made feel political and in violation of the spirit of having a special counsel? He arguably handed off his central job to a political appointee. michael schmidt Well, we don’t know, and we’re trying to find out. But here are two possibilities. Maybe, one, he didn’t want to box in Barr. He didn’t want to put him in a situation where he may appear to be disagreeing with the investigators. The second is that the legal issues around this are very difficult to unravel because it’s caught up in the unique position the president has as the head of the executive branch. And it may just be so hard to untangle them that Mueller kind of threw up his hands and said, this is a highly unusual situation. I’m going to let the Justice Department make the call. michael barbaro It’s interesting. You said that maybe Mueller doesn’t want to box in Bill Barr, but it feels like it also puts Barr in a very weird position, because Barr’s options are all about degrees of political once Mueller kicks the decision to him. If Barr makes a decision about obstruction, yes, that seems political. But if he sends Mueller’s findings along to Congress with an open-ended question of whether or not the president obstructed justice, he leaves it to a Democratically controlled House to answer the question. And honestly, that feels as political, maybe even more political, than the attorney general making the call himself. michael schmidt In a sense, maybe Barr was damned if he did and damned if he didn’t. I don’t know. michael barbaro Do you think that Mueller would have anticipated all of this, that this would put Barr in a political position and would essentially violate the spirit of what the special counsel was all about? michael schmidt It’s one of the mysteries right now. It’s one of the questions we’re trying to answer. Why is it that Mueller couldn’t come to a conclusion? Came to a conclusion on collusion, said it didn’t happen. But obstruction — wouldn’t exonerate the president. michael barbaro Mike, it seems like before this report came out over the weekend, the main concern from Congress about Attorney General Bill Barr was whether he would ever release the full Mueller report to Congress, not that he would actually weigh in on whether the president committed crimes, because the idea that Mueller would not reach a conclusion wasn’t really conceivable. In retrospect, was that a mistake, that we weren’t focused enough on the possibility that Barr might weigh in on something like this and that he had already kind of told us how he would act in this situation? michael schmidt Like the folks who put the special counsel regulations together 20 years ago, we, just a few weeks ago, couldn’t predict the future, and we couldn’t come up with the idea that Mueller, who’s been there for two years, would, at the end of the day, throw up his hands and say, I can’t make a determination on this. I spoke to a former senior Justice Department official today who said he had never seen an example in his entire career of prosecutors saying, we just can’t make a call here. michael barbaro I wonder if the way that this has played out, in such a political manner — Mueller sends a decision to Barr, Barr decides not to pursue obstruction — how much does that influence what comes next, how Congress now conducts its side of this investigation, and how it treats the Mueller report? michael schmidt Well, if Mueller had said there was no obstruction, and Barr put that out, then the Democrats would really have nothing to work with. But because Mueller didn’t make a decision, it now opens the door for the Democrats to say, we really need to take a look at everything that was here. Why was it that Mueller couldn’t make a decision? How did Bill Barr assess this? And they actually have something to work with. It gives them an issue to continue to prod on the obstruction of justice. Because if Mueller had cleared the president, the bar, no pun intended, for them to overcome to even investigate it would’ve been pretty high. michael barbaro So counterintuitively, because of the way this played out, because of what Mueller did or didn’t do, and what Barr did as a political figure in all this, he has given someone like Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, a reasonably good reason to keep pushing forward for as much evidence as possible. michael schmidt Correct. And I think that’s what we’ll see. michael barbaro Thank you, Mike. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. Democrats seized on Mr. Barr’s move, portraying it as a hasty and dubious intervention by a man who had taken over the Justice Department pledging to defend its independence, but ended up clearing a president who installed him in the post just last month. Mr. Mueller submitted his report about 48 hours before Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers informing them that he and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, had concluded that investigators lacked evidence that the president had illegally obstructed justice, though Mr. Mueller stopped short of exonerating the president. “His hostility to the prospect of obstruction charges against the president has been now met with what seems to be a fairly rapid decision by him to squelch a case that obviously Bob Mueller found at least plausible,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, a senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee and a former federal prosecutor. The chairmen of six House committees sent Mr. Barr a letter Monday evening demanding access to Mr. Mueller’s full report by April 2 and the underlying evidence shortly thereafter. “Your four-page summary of the special counsel’s review is not sufficient for Congress, as a coequal branch of government, to perform critical work,” they wrote. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. The senior Justice Department officials pushed back. Mr. Mueller and two of his deputies told the attorney general on March 5 that he had no intention of deciding on the obstruction issue, according to an official familiar with the discussion. That gave Mr. Barr time to digest the facts along with Mr. Rosenstein, whom the special counsel’s office regularly briefed. The officials also said the Justice Department applied no pressure on Mr. Mueller as he drew conclusions in the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr made the “right call,” said Robert W. Ray, the former independent counsel for the Whitewater investigation who took over after Ken Starr stepped down. Since the statute that created independent counsels no longer exists, he said, it is the proper role of the attorney general to render a judgment on such a momentous and novel question. “We depend on Bob Mueller to gather the information to make that judgment, but in a close call where there are significant both factual and legal hurdles to tackling the president, I think it is important for the department to speak with one voice, and that one voice is the voice of the attorney general,” he said. Mr. Barr took over at a Justice Department that was still reeling from extraordinary moves by its leaders in recent years, including Mr. Comey’s defiance of longstanding policy to publicly criticize Mrs. Clinton while also declaring that “no reasonable prosecutor” would charge her with a crime as he closed an investigation into the matter. Mr. Comey’s break with department policy was the subject of a blistering inspector general report, and Mrs. Clinton’s supporters believed that his public statements — and later move to reopen the email investigation days before the election — contributed to her loss to Mr. Trump. Current and former Justice Department lawyers, including Mr. Barr and Mr. Rosenstein, had sharply criticized Mr. Comey’s handling of the case. Mr. Mueller’s report arrived at the Justice Department on Friday, when a member of Mr. Mueller’s security team delivered a few hard copies of the team’s confidential findings to Mr. Rosenstein’s office. Those reports were immediately given to Mr. Barr, who began to read. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Over the next two days, he and Mr. Rosenstein met with a small group of aides, including Edward O’Callaghan, Mr. Rosenstein’s top deputy, and Steven A. Engel, the head of the department’s Office of Legal Counsel. In his letter, Mr. Barr said Mr. Mueller had concluded that the evidence did not show that Mr. Trump or anyone involved with his campaign could be prosecuted for conspiring with the Russian government in its election interference operation — a determination that Mr. Mueller and his deputies had relayed during their March 5 briefing. But the special counsel had been far more equivocal about whether Mr. Trump had illegally sought to obstruct that investigation, Mr. Barr wrote. The special counsel’s team examined a pattern of behavior by Mr. Trump that raised questions about whether he obstructed justice, including urging Mr. Comey in February 2017 to drop an investigation into Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser; the president’s firing of Mr. Comey; and his appearing to dangle pardons at potential witnesses in the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr said Mr. Mueller had laid out evidence and arguments both for and against the proposition that Mr. Trump committed obstruction but gave no details of the special counsel’s analysis. It is not clear from Mr. Barr’s letter whether Mr. Mueller had wanted the attorney general to make the final decision on the obstruction issue, or whether he intended for Congress to absorb the evidence without a prejudgment by law enforcement. While Mr. Barr did not detail his reasoning for deciding on the case, he appeared to be focusing on the question of whether investigators could prove Mr. Trump had “corrupt intent” in instances where the available evidence about his motivations was ambiguous. Obstruction cases often turn on whether prosecutors can prove that someone acted with an illegitimate motive. Mr. Barr noted that Mr. Mueller had said there was insufficient evidence to prove any underlying offense of conspiring with Russia, and that “the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent.” Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. But in narrowly focusing on a lack of evidence that the Trump campaign reached any agreement with the Russian government on sabotaging the election, legal experts said, Mr. Barr left out other reasons the president may have had for wanting to stymie a wide-ranging investigation: It could uncover other crimes and embarrassing facts. Indeed, it did. The special counsel investigation uncovered a scheme between the president and his former lawyer Michael D. Cohen to violate campaign finance laws by paying hush money to an adult-film actress who alleged an affair with Mr. Trump, which he denies. Other matters related to the president that spun off from the special counsel’s work remain under scrutiny, including financial dealings by his inaugural committee and family business. The special counsel’s inquiry also led to several of the president’s associates or campaign aides facing criminal charges and brought to light other potentially embarrassing information, including a detailed account of how Russia carried out two covert operations to aid his campaign. Moreover, Mr. Barr’s suggestion that it could be hard to prove the president acted with a bad motive was at odds with his own previous writings. He has suggested that a president’s use of executive powers are beyond the reach of criminal law — regardless of motive. In the 19-page memo Mr. Barr wrote unsolicited for the Trump administration last year, he argued that Mr. Mueller ought not be permitted to question Mr. Trump about several actions that he had taken as president that prompted accusations of obstruction. Mr. Barr contended that a federal law against obstruction of justice should not be interpreted as applying to a president’s exercise of his constitutional authorities — such as to direct the Justice Department to close a case, to fire a subordinate or to pardon someone — as opposed to more familiar ways of impeding an investigation like destroying evidence or suborning perjury. His argument in part rested on his broad theory of presidential power. But he also worried about the prospect of a world in which every time the Justice Department exercised prosecutorial discretion or changed a prosecutorial team in a controversial case, critics could raise accusations of improper motive and call for a criminal inquiry. Citing Mr. Barr’s memo as a reason to question his motive in pronouncing Mr. Trump cleared of obstruction, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he will call the attorney general to testify. “The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people,” Mr. Nadler said. “We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.” Nicholas Fandos, Sharon LaFraniere and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c99701249f0eacbf105f001", "date": "2019-03-26T00:18:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says Mueller Report Will Be Redacted and Made Public by Mid-April", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The special counsel’s report on the investigation into Russia’s election interference will be made public by mid-April, Attorney General William P. Barr told lawmakers on Friday, adding that the White House would not see the document before he sent it to Congress. “Everyone will soon be able to read it,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to the chairmen of the congressional judiciary committees. Prosecutors from the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and other law enforcement officials are scouring the report for sensitive information to black out before releasing it, including secret grand jury testimony, classified materials and information about other continuing federal investigations, Mr. Barr wrote. He said the report — which covers Moscow’s campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential race, whether any Trump associates conspired and whether the president obstructed the inquiry — was nearly 400 pages, plus supplements. He said he planned to testify on Capitol Hill in early May, shortly after the report’s release, to discuss it with lawmakers. [Read Mr. Barr’s letter.] Mr. Barr, who was sworn in as attorney general last month, has committed since his confirmation hearing to making public as much of the highly anticipated report as possible. But his declaration on Sunday, two days after the report was delivered to him, that Mr. Trump had not illegally obstructed justice drew swift condemnation from Democrats. They accused him of stepping in where Mr. Mueller had declined to make a prosecutorial decision. Mr. Barr said that Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, concurred with his finding on the obstruction question but noted that Mr. Mueller, while he declined to make a judgment on the issue, also stopped short of explicitly exonerating the president. The House passed a resolution this month, 420 to 0, demanding that the full report be released. Democrats have called for the Justice Department to send them the underlying investigative files as well. “Congress requires the full and complete Mueller report, without redactions, as well as access to the underlying evidence,” Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement in response to Mr. Barr’s letter. Mr. Trump has already seized on Mr. Barr’s findings as vindication, declaring during a rally with supporters on Thursday night in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the cloud hanging over his presidency had finally cleared. “After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump said. “The collusion delusion is over.” Mr. Trump said during a news conference on Friday in Florida that he had nothing to hide and that he had “great confidence” in Mr. Barr. “This was a hoax,” Mr. Trump said of the investigation. Mr. Barr has weighed whether to assert the administration’s power to keep portions of the report secret from Congress, under the executive privilege that can protect internal information like the president’s private conversations. Some of those discussions were at the heart of the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the inquiry, complicating the issue. Mr. Barr reiterated that Mr. Trump had publicly stated that he would defer to the Justice Department, “although the president would have the right to assert privilege over certain parts of the report,” the attorney general wrote. “Accordingly, there are no plans to submit the report to the White House for a privilege review,” Mr. Barr added. However, it remains an open question whether Justice Department lawyers themselves will excise material they believe could be privileged before sending the report to Congress. It is also not clear whether Mr. Barr or other politically appointed officials would be a part of such a redaction process. A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on how the department would handle executive privilege issues. House Democrats have already begun portraying the results of the Mueller investigation as a starting point for their scrutiny of Mr. Trump. They have opened investigations into Mr. Trump’s campaign and his business dealings before and after he took office, and other law enforcement investigations loom, including inquiries into Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee and his role in hush-money payments during the election to women who claimed extramarital affairs with him. Mr. Trump has denied the affairs, though he has insisted that the payments were private transactions that violated no laws. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  ", "id": "5c9e74ac49f0eacbf108e044", "date": "2019-03-29T19:38:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "With Barr, Will Justice Be Done?", "full_text": " The nominee to be attorney general has backed some of the president’s worst impulses on the Russia inquiry. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. The Senate has some tough questions to ask of William Barr this week before voting on confirming him as the next attorney general.  Not only has Mr. Barr already come perilously close to reassuring Mr. Trump that the president did not obstruct justice by trying to derail the investigation into whether his campaign conspired with Russia to corrupt the 2016 election, and that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, was overreaching, but he also has a long history of advancing an aggressive, expansive conception of presidential power. He has made the case that a president can resist congressional oversight — a convenient position for Mr. Trump, but a concerning one for the country, now that Democrats are in charge of the House. He’s even seen no problem with the president investigating a political opponent, saying there would be more validity in investigating Hillary Clinton for a uranium deal the government approved while she was secretary of state — which she had nothing to do with — than there was in investigating whether Mr. Trump conspired with Russia. This theory of executive power has long been prized in conservative legal circles. But it will only empower a chief executive who has fought oversight since his first days in office and has rued the day that the special counsel was appointed after his first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, recused himself from the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr cast further doubts about his appointment when he freelanced a memorandum to the Trump administration saying that the steps the president has continually taken to stymie a criminal probe he’s detested — firing the F.B.I. director James Comey, threatening to pardon associates who might cooperate with Mr. Mueller, or even using his “authority to start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” — were constitutionally legitimate. “Mueller’s obstruction theory,” he wrote, “would do lasting damage to the presidency.” Given these past statements, it would be best if Mr. Barr, too, recused himself. But with the impending departure of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mr. Mueller and oversaw his investigation after Mr. Sessions’s recusal, it’s not clear if the inquiry would be any better protected in other hands. There should be tremendous pressure on Mr. Barr to allow Mr. Mueller free rein, both in investigating and in writing a final report.  Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, told reporters on Wednesday that Mr. Barr assured him that he doesn’t think the special counsel is conducting a witch hunt and that he’d aim for transparency whenever Mr. Mueller delivers to him a final report on the special counsel investigation. But is that assurance enough? And if Justice Department ethics officials conclude that Mr. Barr ought to cede supervision of the probe to avoid the “appearance” of bias, as they concluded in the case of the acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, will Mr. Barr simply ignore them, as did Mr. Whitaker? Mr. Barr recommended that President George H.W. Bush pardon Reagan administration officials convicted or implicated in the Iran-contra scandal, including former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger. Would he object to Mr. Trump pardoning his former national security adviser Michael Flynn or Paul Manafort, whom Mr. Mueller has accused of giving polling data to an associate connected to Russian intelligence? Mr. Trump has certainly considered it. These are not the only subjects senators should pursue with Mr. Barr. He holds the same hard-line views on immigration and criminal justice that once endeared Mr. Sessions to the president. And as the Justice Department has declined to crack down on discriminatory police departments, reversed course as protector of voting rights and abdicated its role in the defense of the Affordable Care Act, morale in its ranks has taken a hit.  Just last week, a former lawyer with the department’s Office of Legal Counsel, an elite office that gives legal and policy advice to the president, wrote in The Washington Post that she had resigned after she no longer could give legal cover to the White House’s actions. What are Mr. Barr’s plans to earn back the trust of these public servants and stand up for the rule of law? But it is Mr. Barr’s approach to the investigation of the president that demands the most scrutiny. Under his view that the president controls Justice Department functions and can “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding,” he may well be committed to the idea that the president can do as he wishes with the Mueller investigation. Would he be willing to resign if Mr. Trump tried to shut that investigation down, as Attorney General Elliot Richardson did when President Richard Nixon ordered him to fire the Watergate special prosecutor? At the very least, Mr. Barr can commit to standing up for the integrity of the office he aspires to hold. Despite the partial government shutdown, Mr. Mueller’s investigators continue to move ahead. And federal prosecutors in New York, Virginia and Washington remain hard at work, bringing cases that have arisen out of Mr. Mueller’s probe or that otherwise incriminate subjects at the center of it. This commitment to justice serves as an example to all and ought to go on unimpeded.", "id": "5c3a50833a125f5075c04199", "date": "2019-01-12T20:39:29+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Says Mueller Report Will Be Public ‘Within a Week’", "full_text": " • Attorney General William P. Barr said he will deliver the Mueller report to Congress and the public within a week, reiterating his earlier promise to release it by mid-April. • Testifying before the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday, Mr. Barr said he would be transparent about redactions in the report. But he demurred when asked whether he has briefed the White House on it. • The Justice Department inspector general expects to finish an examination of aspects of the Russia investigation by May or June, Mr. Barr revealed. • Mr. Barr has tried to keep the appropriations hearing focused on the department’s proposed $29.2 billion budget, which includes money for 100 new immigration judges as President Trump hardens his stance on immigration along the southwestern border. Mr. Barr, hit immediately with questions about his handling of the Mueller report by Democrats, reiterated his vow to be as transparent as possible and said that he will turn over a redacted version of the report to Congress and the public within a week. Mr. Barr went over the categories of information he says he must black out — like information that is subject to grand-jury secrecy rules — and said that whatever he censors in the report, he will identify the reason. “This process is going along very well and my original timetable of being able to release this by mid-April stands,” he said. “And so I think that from my standpoint, within a week I will be in a position to release the report to the public.” Representative José E. Serrano, Democrat of New York and the head of the appropriations subcommittee that covers the Justice Department, pressed Mr. Barr to say whether the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or his staff had played any role in drafting or reviewing two letters that Mr. Barr sent to Congress late last month about the report. Mr. Barr said that the special counsel had not participated in writing those letters, nor seen them in advance, though he gave Mr. Mueller the chance to see his letter summarizing the investigation’s main findings. “The letter of the 24th, Mr. Mueller’s team did not play a role in drafting that document, although we offered him the opportunity to review it before we sent it out and he declined that,” Mr. Barr said. “The letter on the 29th, I don’t believe that that was reviewed by Mr. Mueller or that they participated in drafting that letter.” Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the full Appropriations Committee, pressed Mr. Barr to say whether the White House has seen or been briefed on the contents of the Mueller report beyond what was in his letters about it to Congress. But Mr. Barr refused to answer. “I’ve said what I’m going to say about the report today,” he said. “I’ve issued three letters about it. I was willing to discuss the historic information of how the report came to me and my decision on Sunday,” March 24, when he wrote a four-page letter to Congress laying out the special counsel’s top-line findings. “But I’ve already laid out the process that is going forward to release these reports hopefully within a week,” he added. “I’m not going to say anything more about it until the report is out and everyone has a chance to look at it.” In the past, Justice Department officials have said that Mr. Barr had not shown the White House any part of the Mueller report or briefed Mr. Trump’s team about its contents. His demurral on Tuesday raised the possibility that the situation has shifted and the White House knows more than the public or Congress about what Mr. Mueller said. Democrats who lead the House Appropriations Committee were eager to press Mr. Barr on what one called “the elephant in the room”: his handling of the highly anticipated special counsel’s report. “The American people have been left with many unanswered questions; serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report,” Mr. Serrano said in his opening remarks. “I think it would strike a serious blow to our system and yes to our democracy if that report is not fully seen,” he added. Democrats have criticized Mr. Barr’s decision to share Mr. Mueller’s top-line findings in a four-page letter that quoted sparingly from the report itself and his declaration that Mr. Trump had not committed an obstruction-of-justice offense after Mr. Mueller declined to make a prosecutorial judgment. They renewed their complaints after The New York Times revealed last week that some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have complained that Mr. Barr failed to fully represent their findings and that they were more damaging for the president than the attorney general indicated. On Tuesday, they had their first chance to level criticism in person. Ms. Lowey called Mr. Barr’s handling of the Mueller report “unacceptable” and questioned how quickly he summarized the findings in his March 24 letter. “Even for someone who has done this job before,” she said, referring to Mr. Barr’s first stint as attorney general in the 1990s, “I would argue it is more suspicious than impressive.” Batting back Democrats’ criticism, Mr. Barr insisted that he had accurately delivered the “bottom-line” conclusions of the special counsel’s investigation in his letter to Congress and warned that attempting to quickly summarize the report more fully would have exposed him to a minefield of potential criticism. Asked about The Times’s reporting on frustrations among some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators about the narrow scope of his letter laying out their findings, Mr. Barr appeared unswayed. “I was not interested in putting out summaries or trying to summarize,” Mr. Barr said, “because I think any summary, regardless of who prepares it, not only runs the risk of being under-inclusive or over-inclusive, but also would trigger a lot of discussion and analysis that really should await everything coming out at once.” Each page of the report was marked that it might contain secret grand jury material and could not be readily released anyway, he said. He also said he had asked the intelligence community to review the report for any information that might compromise their sources and methods of intelligence-gathering and would thus need to be redacted. But he did not address his decision to step in and make a judgment on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice after Mr. Mueller’s team conspicuously did not. Republicans tried to help Mr. Barr hammer home the report’s top-line findings. “The conclusions were simple: no collusion, no obstruction,” said Representative Tom Graves, Republican of Georgia, ignoring Mr. Mueller’s statement that the investigation did not “exonerate” Mr. Trump of obstruction and that it found no criminal conspiracy between any Trump associates and Russia’s election interference. Mr. Graves added, “Is there anything new you have seen that would change your conclusions?” Mr. Barr responded, “There is nothing to suggest to me” that the conclusions have changed. “The letter speaks for itself.” [Congress waits as Barr blacks out parts of the Mueller report.] One of the key reasons Mr. Barr has said he must black out portions of the Mueller report before showing it to Congress is a federal rule of criminal procedure that forbids Justice Department officials from disclosing grand-jury information to outsiders. On its face, that rule — known as 6(e) — makes no exception for Congress. There are exceptions to the rule, however, particularly if a judge issues an order permitting the material to be disclosed. That happened in 1974, when a judge overseeing the Watergate grand jury permitted the evidence it gathered to be sent to the House Judiciary Committee, which had opened an impeachment inquiry into President Nixon. But the executive branch in 1974 supported sending the evidence to Congress. Mr. Barr was asked whether his Justice Department would be willing to join a similar motion to allow Congress to see the grand-jury material that Mr. Mueller gathered. But Mr. Barr said he has no such intention. He said if House Judiciary Committee members want to see that material, they can ask the judge. “The chairman of the Judiciary Committee is free to go to court if he feels one of those exceptions is applicable,” Mr. Barr said, adding: “My intention is not to ask for it at this stage. I mean, if the chairman has a good explanation of why 6(e) does not apply and his need for the information, I’m willing to listen.” Under pressure to give Congress the entire text of the Mueller report, Mr. Barr repeatedly reminded his critics that he is operating under rules written by Clinton administration officials to prevent a repetition of the Whitewater-Monica Lewinsky scandal, where Ken Starr gave lawmakers a long report that contained detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president. Mr. Barr’s point seemed to be: If you have a problem with this process, blame the Clinton Democrats. “This whole mechanism for the special counsel, as I said, was established during the Clinton administration in the wake of Ken Starr’s report,” Mr. Barr said. “That’s why the current rule says the report should be kept confidential, because there was a lot of reaction against the publication of Ken Starr’s report and many of the people who are right now calling for release of this report were basically castigating Ken Starr and others for releasing the Starr report.” Mr. Starr, the independent counsel leading the Clinton investigation, was operating under a now-defunct law that gave him the authority to send a report directly to Congress. The Republican-controlled Congress promptly made the whole thing public. That experience helped persuade members of Congress of both parties that the independent counsel law should be permitted to lapse in 1999. But there was still a need for some kind of mechanism for prosecutors with a degree of independence to investigate potential high-level executive-branch wrongdoing. Under then-Attorney General Janet Reno, the Clinton administration issued the special counsel regulation that governed Mr. Mueller’s investigation. Among other things, it called for the special counsel to write a “confidential” report for the attorney general, who would then relay his own report to Congress saying the investigation was over. In short, those rules did not envision a lengthy report from Mr. Mueller going to Congress and being published for the public to read — in any form. “You will recognize that I’m operating under a regulation that was put together during the Clinton administration and does not provide for the publication of the report,” Mr. Barr said. “But I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can.” Representative Matt Cartwright, Democrat of Pennsylvania, assailed Mr. Barr and the Justice Department for declining to defend the Affordable Care Act in federal court in Texas, where a judge recently struck down the sweeping health care law as unconstitutional. Mr. Cartwright accused Mr. Barr of putting the weight of the Justice Department behind a political effort to invalidate the law and warned that it could result in millions of people losing their health care coverage. Mr. Barr did not dispute that he had decided to no longer defend the law but told Mr. Cartwright that he had “nothing to worry about” if he thought that the department had taken “such an outrageous position” because the government was likely to lose the case in question. “Let the courts do their job,” Mr. Barr said. Republicans have challenged the law in various court cases since it was passed nine years ago. Late last year, a federal judge in Texas struck down the law on the grounds that its requirement that Americans buy health insurance was unconstitutional. The Justice Department had said last summer that it would no longer defend that mandate, and broadened its attack on the law last month, telling a federal appeals court that it believed the entire law should be invalidated. If the court accepts that argument, millions of people could lose health insurance. Mr. Barr declined to speculate about the impact of the Justice Department’s decision not to defend the law, though he acknowledged that it could end with no plan in place for those who depend on the law to maintain coverage. The exchange underscored Mr. Barr’s sweeping view of executive power and that the attorney general ultimately answers to the president. Though the Justice Department generally defends the law in any challenges to it, Mr. Barr indicated he was willing to make an exception in a case where the president asked for something different so long as it was legally defensible. Mr. Barr is requesting an additional $72.1 million for immigration enforcement — an amount that would fund 100 new immigration judges — at a time when Mr. Trump has hardened his stance against illegal immigration and asylum seekers. Over the past two days, he has purged top immigration and security leaders to accelerate that goal. While the additional judges will “provide some relief from a critical backlog in the immigration courts,” Mr. Barr said, he also said that an influx of cases “constrains our ability to manage the backlog of cases, and other reforms are necessary.” The Justice Department oversees the nation’s immigration judges, who are separate from the judicial branch. Mr. Barr also said that “attacking those transnational criminal organizations is a high priority” for the department and noted that the Justice Department is asking for more than $140 million in budget increases at the F.B.I., the Drug Enforcement Administration and elsewhere to address drug crimes. The Justice Department inspector general intends to complete by May or June his investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry, including whether law enforcement officials abused their surveillance powers to spy on a Trump campaign aide, Mr. Barr said. The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has been examining how the F.B.I. and Justice Department obtained a secret warrant in October 2016 to wiretap Carter Page, a former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. Republicans have accused law enforcement officials of improperly obtaining the warrant because they relied in part on Democratic-funded opposition research compiled by Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who was also an F.B.I. informant, in seeking permission from the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to surveil Mr. Page. As part of his investigation, Mr. Horowitz is also scrutinizing the F.B.I.’s relationship with Mr. Steele. Mr. Barr also said he was studying the F.B.I.’s decision to begin investigating ties between Russia and Mr. Trump’s campaign during the 2016 election, Mr. Barr said. He said he was trying to get his “arms around all the aspects of the counterintelligence investigation.” An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a congresswoman on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Representative Nita M. Lowey, not Nina. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionVicki Divoll  ", "id": "5cac829849f0eacbf1f81d0a", "date": "2019-04-09T11:30:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says He’ll Release Mueller Report ‘Within a Week’ as He Defends His Handling of It", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr vowed on Tuesday to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week,” defending his handling of the special counsel investigation’s findings as a bid for transparency as Democrats accused him of politically motivated behavior. Mr. Barr said he would explain his redactions and was open to negotiating with lawmakers about revealing some of the delicate information that he and law enforcement officials are blacking out from the highly anticipated report before he sends it to Congress and the public. “This process is going along very well, and my original timetable of being able to release this by mid-April stands,” Mr. Barr said at a House budget hearing. “And so I think that from my standpoint, within a week I will be in a position to release the report to the public.” [Read Mr. Barr’s top takeaways from the Mueller report.] But he was less forthcoming about aspects of his review, declining to say whether President Trump had been briefed on the report after Justice Department and White House officials had said for weeks that the president has not been updated on its contents. And he did not explain why he cleared Mr. Trump of committing an obstruction-of-justice offense when Mr. Mueller’s team declined to make a decision. Democrats assailed Mr. Barr’s decision to send a four-page letter to Congress in March outlining the main findings of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, pointing to complaints by members of the special counsel’s team that Mr. Barr failed to fully portray the extent of how damaging their conclusions might be for Mr. Trump. “The American people have been left with many unanswered questions, serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report,” said Representative José E. Serrano, Democrat of New York and the head of the appropriations subcommittee that covers the Justice Department. Mr. Barr insisted that he had accurately delivered the “bottom line” conclusions from Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into Russia’s election interference and whether any Trump associates conspired, as well as whether President Trump tried to impede the inquiry. He said that Mr. Mueller declined an opportunity to read his March 24 letter before Mr. Barr sent it to lawmakers. And Mr. Barr warned that trying to quickly summarize the report more fully would have exposed him to a minefield of potential criticism. “I was not interested in putting out summaries or trying to summarize,” Mr. Barr said, “because I think any summary, regardless of who prepares it, not only runs the risk of being under-inclusive or over-inclusive, but also would trigger a lot of discussion and analysis that really should await everything coming out at once.” Mr. Barr pushed back on Democrats’ complaints that they did not have the report, reminding them that they would be able to read it in days. And as for his four-page letter, he suggested that had he not written it, lawmakers would have bitterly complained if they were given no information or insight into Mr. Mueller’s conclusions during the redaction process. “In my judgment, it was important for people to know the bottom-line conclusions of the report while we worked on necessary redactions to make the whole thing available,” said Mr. Barr, adding that he anticipated that the redactions would take weeks. The back and forth came during an unusually contentious House appropriations subcommittee hearing, where Mr. Barr also defended the Trump administration’s hardening stance on immigration and the Justice Department’s decision to stand down rather than appeal a federal judge’s decision to strike down the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Barr also revealed that the Justice Department inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, is wrapping up an examination of parts of the Russia investigation, including accusations that law enforcement officials abused their powers to wiretap Carter Page, a former Trump campaign adviser. Mr. Horowitz could reveal the results as early as May or June, Mr. Barr said. Though Democrats have for weeks demanded to see the full text of the Mueller report and all underlying investigative materials, Mr. Barr reminded them that he is operating under rules written by Clinton administration officials to prevent a repetition of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. In 1998, Ken Starr gave lawmakers a long report that contained detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Under the current regulations, the special counsel delivers a confidential report of investigative decisions to the attorney general, who is free to decide what to release. “I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can,” Mr. Barr said. To that end, Mr. Barr repeated his promise that lawmakers would receive a redacted report in mid-April and that he would testify about its contents soon afterward. He said that he would identify which of four categories redacted material fell into — secret grand jury testimony, classified information, materials that could affect current investigations and information about peripheral third parties. Those were the same types of information that Democrats have fought to protect when Republicans tried to obtain documents from the Justice Department. Though Mr. Barr said he was open to negotiating whether the department could share some of the redacted details after releasing the report, he took a harder line on grand jury testimony. While Congress can request it in the context of a legal proceeding, he said he was not obligated to honor such a request. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said that once he received the redacted report, he would issue a subpoena for the complete document and petition a court for the grand jury testimony. “If it doesn’t have everything we require to do our work, which is to say the entire report and underlying evidence in it, we will issue subpoenas forthwith,” Mr. Nadler told reporters on Tuesday. Democrats were taking other steps to try to get ahold of information pertinent to the Russia investigation. Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told reporters later on Tuesday that he believed requirements that the intelligence agencies regularly update their congressional oversight committees on significant developments could allow a side-door view into the findings of Mr. Mueller and the investigators who worked with him. Mr. Schiff said he had made a request along those lines in recent weeks but had not yet received a response. Justice Department officials have said that they have not shared the report or briefed the White House on its contents, so the demurral raised the possibility that the situation had shifted. Mr. Barr is likely to be pressed on the matter on Wednesday, when he is scheduled to testify before Senate appropriators. Mr. Barr visited Capitol Hill to answer questions about the Justice Department’s proposed $29.2 billion budget for the next fiscal year, which includes money for 100 new judges for immigration courts, which are part of the department, not the judicial system. He also echoed the president’s increasingly hard-line stance on immigration, which has touched off a purge of Department of Homeland Security officials who Mr. Trump believes impeded his goal of shutting the southwestern border entirely. Mr. Barr called the situation along the border with Mexico “unprecedented” and said that part of the Justice Department’s request for an additional $72.1 million for immigration enforcement would pay for the new immigration judges to tackle a backlog of cases. Democrats, who see health care as one of their top campaign issues, also assailed Mr. Barr and the Justice Department for declining to appeal a Texas judge’s decision to strike down the Affordable Care Act on the grounds that the sweeping health care law was unconstitutional. Under fire for the decision, Mr. Barr said: “I’m a lawyer. I’m not in charge of health care.” But his comment belied the fact that his refusal to defend a law on the books can effectively shape policy. While Mr. Barr would not disclose any discussions with Mr. Trump over the health care law, he said that he would follow the wishes of the president so long as his request was legally defensible. Nicholas Fandos and Charlie Savage contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    ", "id": "5cad217849f0eacbf1f821f9", "date": "2019-04-09T22:47:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Goes Beyond Mueller in Clearing Trump on Obstruction, Drawing Scrutiny", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Over the 22 months of their inquiry, Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators examined countless documents and interviewed dozens of witnesses, including some of the highest-ranking lawyers and aides in the White House, to determine whether President Trump obstructed justice. But in the end, the special counsel reached no conclusion — instead producing a report that merely marshaled evidence on both sides. Then, Attorney General William P. Barr, a political appointee whom Mr. Trump installed less than a month ago and who began reading Mr. Mueller’s report on Friday, stepped in. With the concurrence of his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, Mr. Barr seized the opportunity to render a judgment — pronouncing Mr. Trump clear of committing any criminal offense. The propriety of that move by Mr. Barr — who had written an unsolicited memo last year arguing that Mr. Mueller ought not be permitted to investigate Mr. Trump for obstruction of justice — is certain to be a focus of political contention as Congress grapples with what it now knows about the still-secret Mueller report. Representative Jerrold Nadler, the New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, cited Mr. Barr’s memo as a reason for suspicion and suggested that Mr. Barr’s action may amount to a “hasty partisan interpretation of the facts.” Reiterating demands to disclose the special counsel’s report itself and saying he would seek testimony from Mr. Barr, Mr. Nadler added, “I would in fact wonder if the attorney general pressured the special counsel into not making that finding so he could make the finding.” But Mr. Barr’s clearing of Mr. Trump will arm Republicans with fresh arguments to dismiss Democrats’ inquiries as politically motivated. The top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, urged Mr. Nadler to drop issues that Mr. Mueller’s report covered. Mr. Trump’s lawyers had believed that out of all the issues Mr. Mueller examined, the president faced the most criminal exposure from the obstruction investigation. Mr. Mueller had investigated a range of the president’s actions as possible obstruction: pressuring James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, to drop an investigation into Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; firing Mr. Comey; and the president’s lawyer dangling pardons to witnesses. The pattern of behavior raised the question of whether Mr. Trump had violated obstruction-of-justice laws, which make it a crime to impede an investigation with corrupt intent. Courts have ruled that otherwise lawful actions can be such a crime if the motive was malign. But investigators never got a chance to interrogate Mr. Trump about his motives. Concerned about his penchant for falsehoods and whether he might perjure himself, the president’s lawyers persuaded the special counsel team to accept written answers to their questions. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin What does the Mueller report say? The attorney general offered an early glimpse. michael schmidt Hello? Hello? Hello? maggie haberman Hello. michael schmidt Maggie? maggie haberman Hi. michael schmidt Can you hear me? maggie haberman Yes, can you hear me? michael schmidt Yeah, hold on, hold on, hold on. Wearing two headphones right now. maggie haberman Mm. Sounds about right. michael schmidt Can you hear me? Oh, that’s better. maggie haberman We gotcha. We’re just waiting on the star. michael barbaro Hi. maggie haberman It’s Michael Barbaro, host of “The Daily.” michael schmidt Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — Attorney General William Barr has sent a letter to Congress summarizing the findings of the special counsel investigation: No coordination with Russia. More complicated on obstruction of justice. My colleagues Maggie Haberman and Mike Schmidt explain. It’s Monday, March 25. O.K. Maggie, like, it is 6:00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Two hours ago, the attorney general, Bill Barr, sent a letter to congressional leaders outlining the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report. michael schmidt The report is broken into two parts. The first one is on the biggest, most central question that has surrounded the president since he was elected: What are the ties between his campaign and Russia? And on that issue, Barr is unequivocal. michael barbaro What does he say? michael schmidt He says there are no ties between what Russia did in the election and Trump’s campaign. That despite how aggressively the Russians tried to interfere in our election, and even outreach that they made to the campaign, they were able to find no evidence that they actually worked together. michael barbaro But Mike, help me understand this. In the lead-up to the report, the Mueller investigation issued a number of subpoenas and charges that felt like they revealed forms of collusion. I’m thinking about Papadopoulos, Manafort, a meeting inside Trump Tower that involved the president’s son and his son-in-law. Those all felt like forms of collusion. michael schmidt I think that what went on was that the Trump campaign was sort of collusion-curious in the sense that they were open to sort of talking to anyone about anything. And the Russians were reaching out right. And that meant that there were a lot of odd contacts that occurred. What I think Mueller and Barr are saying is that even though a lot of that stuff looks funky, we have no evidence that they linked hands and tried to work together to hurt Clinton. michael barbaro So collusion-curious does not equal coordination. maggie haberman No. Being interested in getting information is something that you have heard either the president say or people around the president say. You know, of course, we took these meetings. Of course when people reached out to us, we listened to them. Who wouldn’t? Their argument has been that they were just doing what anyone would do. And the other argument they’ve made repeatedly is that they were too discombobulated and too green and too new at this to even know how to collude. And as someone who covered that campaign, I can tell you there is some logic to that argument. michael barbaro As somebody who’s slightly more removed from the day to day of this investigation than either of you, it’s starting to feel from this summary from Bill Barr of the Mueller report that what the investigation found was what we all kind of knew the investigation found as it was finding. That there was nothing all that big being held back. And that helps us understand this conclusion. maggie haberman What we saw in indictments either of Paul Manafort, or of his deputy Rick Gates, who pleaded guilty, or of Mike Flynn or George Papadopoulos, this might have been, it seems, all there was. This was all the information that they were able to prove existed. michael barbaro Mike, what do you think of that? michael schmidt Let’s go back and look at the indictments and guilty pleas. George Papadopoulos, a campaign official who had contacts with individuals who said the Russians were going to be releasing information about Hillary Clinton’s emails before it came out. When George Papadopoulos pleads guilty, he does not plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to investigators about that contact. The president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has these odd phone calls with the Russian ambassador during the transition in which they discuss lifting sanctions that have just been imposed by the Obama administration for election meddling. When Mike Flynn goes into court to plead guilty, he doesn’t plead guilty to conspiring with the Russians. He pleads guilty to making false statements to the F.B.I. about it. So as we went along in the investigation over the past 22 months, we never saw charges that said that the campaign conspired with Russia. There was some question — was Mueller holding out something like that until the end? Was he going to wait and then make a move on it? Well, today, we know that they never found anything. michael barbaro Right. He wasn’t making those kinds of indictments because he didn’t have any evidence of it. maggie haberman Or at least he didn’t have enough to bring an indictment. I mean, he might have found strains of information, he might have found pieces along the way, but it clearly was not enough to bring a charge. michael barbaro So in the end, this was a bunch of people around the president lying, perhaps to avoid what might look like coordination if they were going to tell the truth, but not actually coordinating, according to the legal definition. michael schmidt Correct. michael barbaro And what about the second question in this letter, the question of obstruction of justice? What does Barr’s summary of the Mueller report say about that? michael schmidt So the obstruction part is not nearly as clean-cut as the collusion section. On obstruction, Barr essentially says that Mueller did not come to his own determination on whether the president obstructed justice. That Mueller could not indict or exonerate the president for that charge. But that left the door open for Barr to say, look, Mueller has not made a determination on this. I, as the attorney general, along with the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, will make that call. And we do not believe there is a case to be made the president obstructed justice. michael barbaro I don’t quite understand what’s going on here. Why do we think, Mike, that Mueller declined to weigh in on this question of obstruction of justice? Why leave it kind of up in the air? maggie haberman There’s not really a full explanation for that. And I’m not sure. For the past 22 months, Democrats and a lot of folks in the media have built Mueller up as sort of this paragon of justice, and someone who was willing and able to go out and make determinations and calls on really tough issues in non-partisan, follow-the-facts ways. And here, we have Mueller essentially saying, I don’t really have a determination on it. For each of the relevant actions, the letter says, that were investigated, the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as, quote, “difficult issues of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” The special counsel states that, quote, “while this report does not conclude the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” michael barbaro Let’s pick apart what I think we can all agree is the most salient example of this, where maybe disentangling motive and law and obstruction of justice is really tangled up. And that would be the firing of James Comey. The president at first says it’s not about Russia, then goes on television, says, it really is about Russia. And yet we all know that the president can pretty much fire anyone at that level if he wants to. Is that what Bill Barr, in summarizing Mueller, is saying? That this stuff is just really difficult, and so we’re not making a call? maggie haberman Mueller is saying this is really difficult, and it’s hard to get in the president’s head and know what his intent was and his frame of mind was. And he decides that he is not going to be the one to make that call. Bill Barr, not wanting, I think, to leave this as an open-ended thing puts a pin in it and says, this is done. michael barbaro And says, I will make that call. maggie haberman I will make that call. And we do not believe that this is sufficient to say that the president obstructed justice. And remember, obstruction of justice was key to Richard Nixon. This was a piece that the president’s folks were worried about. They had felt really confident the whole time that there would not be an evidence-based case of conspiracy related to Russia. But they were concerned about what it would find on the obstruction piece. michael schmidt Interestingly — and I still don’t think this issue has gotten enough attention — the central question here was the president’s intent when he took actions like firing Comey. But at the end of the day, the president of the United States never sat for an interview with investigators to answer those questions. So here you have the attorney general saying, this thing is done, but we’ve never heard from Donald Trump on it. And the reason we never heard from Donald Trump on it was that his lawyers were so afraid that if he sat down to answer questions, he would make a factually inaccurate statement and would increase his criminal exposure. michael barbaro And it’s within the president’s rights not to sit down for such an interview. michael schmidt That’s not true. The Justice Department could have subpoenaed him for an interview. michael barbaro But why didn’t they? michael schmidt One of the unanswered questions in this. But in an investigation where the central question was what was the president’s intent, Bob Mueller was never able to ask him that question. michael barbaro But he wasn’t able to ask him the question because he never issued a subpoena. He never pursued all legal avenues? maggie haberman We don’t know whether he pursued a legal avenue and was told that there wasn’t sufficient anything to go get a subpoena, or whether he just didn’t seek one. And that is, to me right now as we sit here, an open question. I don’t know whether Bob Mueller actually sought to go after this subpoena, which a lot of people thought that he would do. We’re not going to know for some time. michael schmidt But what we did learn on Friday when Barr first announced the end of the Mueller investigation was there was no instance in the investigation where Mueller wanted to take a major step, like indict someone, or subpoena them, or get a search warrant, in which he was told by his superiors at the Justice Department that he could not do that. So that would sort of bolster the argument that Mueller was not stopped by the Justice Department from seeking a subpoena to interview the president. He’s saying there were no instances in which Mueller was stopped from moving forward with something he wanted to do. michael barbaro No matter what, in this moment where so much of this second question of obstruction of justice comes down to the president’s motivation, which is essentially a matter of getting into someone’s head, never hearing from President Trump feels very significant. maggie haberman It’s a huge deal. Barr lays it out in this letter to Congress about what Mueller’s thinking was, where he describes that the report sets out evidence on both sides of the question. And I think what you have there is the president’s lawyers have repeatedly offered up explanations for why the president could have been doing something that were not necessarily nefarious or that were not undermining. And the main thing that they have said over and over is, this isn’t obstruction because it’s all playing out in public. It’s not hidden. He has a right to express his views as a citizen of the country. And I anticipate that should we ever see what is in this report, that is going to show up a lot. michael schmidt When Maggie and I would talk to Rudy Giuliani during the investigation — michael barbaro The president’s lawyer. michael schmidt He would say things like, obstruction of justice and trying to interfere in an investigation is going into a dark alley and threatening to break someone’s leg if they cooperate with investigators. It’s bribing someone to not testify. But what Giuliani said is that all this stuff is happening out in the open. He’s not trying to twist anyone’s arm. He’s just blowing off steam about the investigation. And what conspiracy is there in that? michael barbaro Were either of you surprised by either of these actions outlined in this letter when it comes to obstruction of justice — by Mueller declining to make a call, or by Barr being so quick to make a call? maggie haberman I was not surprised that Mueller didn’t make a call. I was surprised that Barr moved so quickly. I did not think that the collusion aspect of this letter was going to be revelatory, but I did think that the obstruction one possibly would be. And it shuts it down definitively. There is a piece of the letter that we haven’t talked about, which is that Bill Barr, the attorney general, tells Congress that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, recognized that, quote, “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference. And that while not determinative, the absence of such evidence bears upon the president’s intent with respect to obstruction.” So a big piece of the thinking for Barr seems to have been that since there is not an underlying crime that was found related to the president, that obstruction is harder to prove. michael barbaro In other words, there is a connection between these two questions. Between coordination and obstruction of justice. That if there was no coordination, if there is no original sin, then it’s hard to establish that there was obstruction of justice. maggie haberman Right. If there is no crime that was committed, it is hard to suggest that the president was trying to obstruct justice in the course of pursuing evidence about that crime. And that is an argument that Mike and I also heard the president’s lawyers say repeatedly, which was that there couldn’t be obstruction of justice because there’s nothing to obstruct. michael barbaro Does that seem like universally sound legal logic? That you can’t commit a crime in obstructing investigations into something that wasn’t a crime? Because it certainly feels like if someone’s investigating me, and I decide to stop the investigation in violation of the law, that that could be itself a violation of a law, separate and apart from whether or not what I was being investigated for in the first place was a crime? I mean, are those two things necessarily connected? michael schmidt I think there’s two reasons why the Justice Department would not want to bring a case like this. The first is that if there’s not an underlying crime, then do you really want to bring an obstruction case? Do you really want to go to court to try and convince a jury that someone took actions where there was nothing to cover up? I think that’s a tough case to make. The second thing is that while the president huffed and puffed a lot about this investigation, I’m not sure how much real damage it did to it. Bob Mueller was able to pursue his inquiry. He was not fired. They finished what they had. They weren’t impeded by the Justice Department. So what was the real damage? If the president was obstructing, how did he really hurt the investigation? Give me the damage report. And I don’t think at the end of the day there was that much that actually hurt Mueller’s team’s ability to do their job. It may have been loud, it may have been annoying, it may have been dispiriting. But I think they were able to pursue what they needed to. maggie haberman I think, also, there’s a third point, which is that I think that Bob Mueller was very mindful that he was dealing with the presidency and the damage that an ongoing case like this, if it was iffy, and not locked solid, not completely nailed down, could cause not just the office of the presidency, but the kind of trauma that brings to a country. michael barbaro I’m very struck as we’re talking, Maggie and Mike, that, at least according to this letter, this is exactly what we have had in front of us all along. maggie haberman Unless the report has a lot of information that we’re not seeing, what we saw play out publicly is what was there. The attorney general made clear that this investigation was ending without a recommendation of more indictments. That includes sealed indictments. This is what we’re getting. It will now move to Capitol Hill, and Democrats will seek to get as much material as they can. But in terms of the part the president was really concerned about in terms of Mueller, that is over. michael barbaro So let’s talk about what Congress is going to do now. Congressional leaders have just received this letter. Mike, you have told us in the past that Democrats were going to be very cautious in how they proceeded under any circumstances. And that if Mueller didn’t find the sort of thing that would force even Republicans in Congress to acknowledge that the president had violated the law, impeachment proceedings would be very unlikely. And it seems like this letter is not at all what Democrats would have needed to move forward in that sort of way. michael schmidt I think it takes a lot of wind out of their sails. They basically have full-blown investigations into obstruction and collusion going on. And here, you have Mueller, someone who has far better tools than they will ever have to investigate, coming out and clearing the president on the Russia issue and giving a mixed message on obstruction that allows Barr to clear him there. It gives the Republicans a very good argument to say, why are you guys continuing to look at these issues? Why are you continuing to rummage around in the president’s life when we’ve received clarity on this from the Justice Department? So I think it hurts them. maggie haberman I think that you’re going to see Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, proceed carefully. As of late evening Sunday, she still had not said anything about how she was going to handle this. And I think that you are going to see a lot of Republicans reminding Democrats that they were holding Robert Mueller up as this avatar of credibility when the investigation was going on, so that it is hard to now say, we need to know more, because we need to make a determination that he couldn’t. That will almost inevitably look very political. michael schmidt So the Democrats are going to ask for everything that Mueller had in the report. And it’s clear from the letter that a lot of obstruction of justice issues were looked at and detailed and analyzed. And the question is that if the Democrats get their hands on that, how damaging is the obstruction stuff? And is it strong enough to give Democrats more of an oomph on their obstruction investigation? michael barbaro Is it both of your understandings that Congress will get a full copy of the Mueller report that they can then examine for these answers? maggie haberman I don’t think that’s been resolved yet. michael schmidt That’s the big question. michael barbaro Maggie, after months of the president calling the Mueller investigation a witch hunt or worse, would it be better now for him to lean into that description or turn around and say, you know, this investigation is the gold star of investigations, and it says I’m in the clear? maggie haberman There are a lot of people in the White House who are encouraging the president to turn and say, this was a highly respected prosecutor who just said there was no collusion. And I hope we can all accept this and move on, and try to strike a healing note. It is the president’s political instinct to burrow into his base and say, this was a witch hunt, this was a hoax. And that is what I have heard a number of his advisers say publicly in the last few hours. It’s what his son said in a statement that he gave me. I think they are going to go full-on by telling people this was a waste of two years. This was an effort to undo an electoral result in 2016, and don’t let this happen again. michael barbaro And I wonder if you can explain for listeners why it wasn’t what you just said the president might call it — a waste of two years. A waste of everyone’s time and an effort to politically undermine him. maggie haberman It might have had the effect of undermining him. That might have been one of the impacts. But we do know, based on numerous assessments from the intelligence community, that Russians did seek to interfere in the 2016 election. We do know that there were many contacts between Russians and people involved in the Trump campaign. So trying to find out what was at the heart of that, one would think, was not a waste of time. And now there is an answer. There is a world in which the president could say, this gave me a clean bill of health, and now you can trust me going forward. michael barbaro Mike, I want to ask you the same question. What is your explanation for why this investigation was not a waste of time? michael schmidt Well, there were legitimate issues and questions that had to be answered. And along the way, the president took action after action that only made the perception that he did something wrong worse. He fired the F.B.I. director. He asked the F.B.I. director to end an investigation into whether his former national security adviser was talking improperly to the Russian ambassador. He said things publicly about the investigation time and time again to demonize the investigators. He criticized his own attorney general, who recused himself from the Russia investigation. He called Mueller’s team a bunch of angry Democrats. He made the perception worse. And there were things that he did that walked up to the line of obstruction and had to be looked at, that had to be sorted through. Whether it was to clear the president and say, hey, look, he did nothing wrong, for his sake, or to give the public some confidence that the president of the United States was not a Russian agent. michael barbaro So among the questions that had to be answered in an investigation into Russian interference in our election, regardless of the answer, was what was the president’s role in this? And it happens to be that the answer was seemingly nothing illegal. But that answer had to be unearthed. michael schmidt A significant portion of the country thought that the president of the United States either wittingly or unwittingly had worked with a foreign adversary to influence the election. That was something that had to be looked into. michael barbaro And because he didn’t do that, Bill Barr also believes he did not obstruct this investigation. michael schmidt There was nothing to obstruct. maggie haberman At least that’s what they found. michael barbaro No one asked me, but — maggie haberman Michael, what do you think? michael barbaro I think that Russia could never have fathomed just how cosmically disruptive their efforts to influence the election would be. maggie haberman I think they succeeded beyond their wildest dreams, yes. michael schmidt Look at how distracted we’ve been as a country because of this for the past two years. Think about all the other issues that we could have been talking about or looking at. This was an enormous, enormous distraction for the country. maggie haberman And for Donald Trump. michael barbaro Maggie, Mike, thank you very much. maggie haberman Thank you. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (donald trump) So after a long look, after a long investigation, after so many people have been so badly hurt, after not looking at the other side, where a lot of bad things happened, a lot of horrible things happened, a lot of very bad things happened for our country, it was just announced there was no collusion with Russia. The most ridiculous thing I’ve ever heard — michael barbaro On Sunday afternoon, on his way back to Washington from his home in Florida, President Trump addressed the major findings of the Mueller report. archived recording (donald trump) There was no obstruction, and none whatsoever. And it was a complete and total exoneration. It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this for — before I even got elected, it began. And it began illegally. And hopefully, somebody is going to look at the other side. This was an illegal takedown that failed. And hopefully, somebody is going to be looking at the other side. So it’s complete — michael barbaro Not long after, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler of New York, disputed the president’s characterization of the Mueller report during a news conference in New York. archived recording (jerry nadler) Earlier today, I received a four-page letter from Attorney General Barr outlining his summary of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report while making a few questionable legal arguments of his own. I take from this letter three points. First, President Trump is wrong. This report does not amount to a so-called “total exoneration.” michael barbaro Nadler seemed to accept Mueller’s conclusion that the president did not coordinate with Russia, but seized on less definitive statements made by Mueller and Barr about whether the president obstructed justice. archived recording (jerry nadler) The attorney general’s comments make it clear that Congress must step in to get the truth and provide full transparency to the American people. The president has not been exonerated by the special counsel. Yet the attorney general has decided not to go further or, apparently, to share those findings with the public. We cannot simply rely on what may be a hasty partisan interpretation of the facts. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. The outcome was a victory for Mr. Trump’s lawyers, who initially pushed the president to cooperate with the investigation but later kept him from sitting down to talk with Mr. Mueller’s investigators about what he had been thinking when he took steps that potentially affected the inquiry. All that the public — or Congress — knows at this point about Mr. Mueller’s findings consists of how Mr. Barr portrayed them in a four-page letter he sent to lawmakers on Sunday. Mr. Mueller cataloged numerous actions by Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr wrote — he did not specify but said most were publicly known — and that the special counsel report presented evidence both for and against concluding that Mr. Trump had broken the law. But in an unusual move Mr. Barr did not explain, Mr. Mueller left that question unresolved, instead stating that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” according to a brief excerpt from the special counsel report that Mr. Barr quoted. With Mr. Rosenstein’s concurrence, Mr. Barr embraced that opening to declare the president broke no law. “The special counsel’s decision to describe the facts of his obstruction investigation without reaching any legal conclusions leaves it to the attorney general to determine whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime,” Mr. Barr wrote, adding that he and his deputy “concluded that the evidence developed during the special counsel’s investigation is not sufficient to establish that the president committed an obstruction-of-justice offense.” Mr. Barr wrote that his decision that Mr. Trump violated no criminal obstruction-of-justice laws was not based on the Justice Department’s view that the Constitution does not permit a sitting president to be indicted. If he had relied on that theory, it would have left Mr. Trump vulnerable to potential indictment after he left office. But Mr. Barr appeared to make implicit reference to other disputed constitutional arguments about presidential power, and whether obstruction laws could be legitimately applied to constrain certain actions by a president. Without spelling them out, Mr. Barr quoted the special counsel report as referring to “‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” Notably, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have taken the position that Congress lacks the authority to constrain in any way how the president exercises his constitutional powers to oversee the executive branch, including deciding whether to direct the Justice Department to close an investigation, to fire a subordinate and to pardon someone. Mr. Barr himself endorsed that view in his June 2018 memo for the Trump administration, when he was still a lawyer in private practice. Under that view, even if a president abuses his power by acting for corrupt reasons, it would be unconstitutional for Congress to make that a crime. Many legal scholars dispute that view, but the Supreme Court has never addressed the issue. It was hard to know from Mr. Barr’s letter what gave Mr. Mueller pause, noted Samuel Buell, a former federal prosecutor who now teaches white-collar criminal law at Duke University. Without seeing Mr. Mueller’s underlying report, he said, it was impossible to evaluate the merits of both Mr. Mueller’s demurral and Mr. Barr’s decision to make a definitive statement in favor of Mr. Trump. “We really need to see what this report says — we need to see the analysis,” he said, adding: “How much of this is Mueller and how much of this is Barr? And certainly it seems a relevant fact to consider that Barr just happens to be someone who, before he became attorney general, had gone on record as someone who was skeptical of the obstruction issue.” Mr. Mueller’s refusal to make any conclusion about obstruction was coupled with a more definitive finding that “the evidence does not establish that the president was involved in an underlying crime related to Russian election interference.” While acknowledging one can be guilty of obstruction of justice even without an underlying crime, Mr. Barr wrote that he and Mr. Rosenstein nevertheless took into account that separate exoneration of Mr. Trump when deciding how to interpret Mr. Trump’s intent with respect to obstruction in the evidence Mr. Mueller had gathered. Obstruction cases are notoriously difficult to prove beyond a reasonable doubt because prosecutors have to prove that the defendant was acting with a corrupt intent, and the evidence is often ambiguous. Essentially, he wrote, that meant Mr. Trump must get the benefit of the doubt: Mr. Mueller’s report, he wrote, “identifies no actions that, in our judgment,” could be proven in court as an obstruction crime. David Kris, who ran the Justice Department’s national security division and now heads the consulting firm Culper Partners, said he was struck by the fact that Mr. Mueller failed to reach a conclusion on whether to prosecute Mr. Trump after nearly two years of work, but Mr. Barr, with Mr. Rosenstein’s help, decided in a single weekend. “It is very unusual to punt on that kind of decision,” he said of Mr. Mueller. “When we read that report and walked a mile in his shoes, we may be able to assess what he did and why he did it. But I confess that I did find it surprising.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c98331249f0eacbf105ed24", "date": "2019-03-25T01:45:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says Congress May See Some Redacted Parts of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that even after he released a partly blacked-out copy of the Mueller report, most likely next week, he would work to share with Congress some of the more sensitive information that he redacted. Mr. Barr also told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee that while he intends to black out derogatory information about “peripheral third parties,” he would not take out criticisms of public office holders, including President Trump. Democrats have attacked Mr. Barr for releasing only a four-page letter on March 24 with what he called the report’s “bottom-line findings”: that the evidence the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, gathered did not show any conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russia, and that while the special counsel took no position on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr deemed him cleared. Lawmakers have demanded to see the unredacted report, a request Mr. Barr tried to address on Wednesday. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” Mr. Barr told the senators. His assurance did not mollify them. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, told him that any attempt to hide pieces of the report would “only fuel suspicions that the Justice Department, which represents the United States, is playing the role of President Trump’s defense team.” Even while Mr. Barr sought to reassure lawmakers that he would treat the report in a transparent and fair manner, he also made a startling statement sure to please the president — that investigative steps by the F.B.I. in 2016 to understand links between the Trump campaign and Russia amounted to “spying” on Mr. Trump’s campaign, a portrayal law enforcement officials have vehemently denied. [Read about the attorney general’s assertion that intelligence agencies spied on the Trump campaign.] The attorney general was testifying about the Justice Department budget for the second straight day. But as happened on Tuesday, when he appeared before a House panel, questions about the Trump-Russia investigation led by Mr. Mueller and his still-secret full report dominated the hearing. Mr. Barr glancingly addressed a mystery raised by his March 24 letter, which did not explain why Mr. Mueller had rendered no judgment on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice — a silence that left open possibilities, including that the special counsel had wanted Mr. Barr to make the call, and that Mr. Mueller had intended for Congress to receive the evidence without the department weighing in. On Wednesday, Mr. Barr said that he had talked to Mr. Mueller about why he made no conclusion, and that the special counsel had not mentioned either of those possibilities to him. But the attorney general hinted that the answer might be known soon, saying that Mr. Mueller “has a fuller explanation of that in the report that I’ll be making available hopefully next week.” Mr. Barr again declined to say whether he had recently briefed the White House on details of the report, even though Justice Department officials had previously said it had not been shown to the White House. The hearing also addressed criticism of the F.B.I.’s early decisions in 2016 to open a counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election-meddling operations that included scrutinizing any links between Russia and associates of the Trump campaign. The investigation, which Mr. Mueller took over the next spring, included assigning an informant to approach members of the Trump campaign with links to Russia and later obtaining a court order to wiretap a former Trump adviser with links to Russia after he left the campaign. During that part of the discussion, Mr. Barr used a startling word to describe those steps — he said he thought “spying” on the Trump campaign had occurred. But he later seemed to tone down that formulation, saying his concern was whether “illegal surveillance” had taken place that was not “adequately predicated” — and conceding that he had “no specific evidence that I would cite right now.” Responding to Mr. Barr’s testimony, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: “These comments directly contradict what DOJ previously told us. I’ve asked DOJ to brief us immediately. In the meantime, the AG still owes us the full Mueller report.” Meanwhile on Wednesday, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a confirmation hearing for Jeffrey A. Rosen, whom Mr. Trump has nominated to be Mr. Barr’s deputy. Mr. Rosen, who is currently the deputy secretary of transportation, would succeed Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller. Mr. Rosen largely sidestepped questions about the Russia investigation and Mueller report, saying he was not part of the department yet and did not know the facts. But Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, noted that some criminal matters that developed from Mr. Mueller’s work are continuing even though the Office of the Special Counsel is shutting down, and she pressed Mr. Rosen to commit to letting them proceed without political interference. “If I am confirmed,” Mr. Rosen replied, “I would expect in all prosecutorial matters to proceed on the facts and the law and not any improper political influences.” Ms. Klobuchar did not name which matters she had in mind, though several cases are still working their way through the court system, including the indictment of Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime informal adviser to Mr. Trump. Separately, under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Rosen defended his role in creating a Trump administration proposal on tailpipe pollution rules. Ms. Feinstein referred to a New York Times article that portrayed him as pushing to let cars emit more greenhouse gases. Mr. Rosen said the article had several errors, although he did not identify them. He also said the issue was how to carry out a law that required annual increases in fuel economy standards through 2020, and then set criteria for decisions about whether to require any further escalations in the years after that. The Trump administration, he said, was merely proposing a “timeout” after 2020. In fact, the current regulations, put forth by the Obama administration, require automakers to keep improving the fuel economy of passenger vehicles through 2025. The administration’s preferred proposal would therefore allow more greenhouse gas pollution than current rules. Mr. Rosen also portrayed himself as playing a “managerial” role in overseeing the drafting of the rule, such as by ensuring deadlines were met. But 11 people interviewed by The Times at the time of the negotiation said Mr. Rosen pushed forcefully for that outcome. Mr. Rosen also addressed criticism that he — like Mr. Barr and Brian A. Benczkowski, the head of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division — had no prosecutorial experience. He noted that the department had many experienced prosecutors, and said, “I would make it my job to utilize and leverage the expertise they bring to bear while combining that with my own experience and judgment.” Coral Davenport contributed reporting. Follow Charlie Savage and Katie Benner on Twitter: @charlie_savage and @ktbenner.   ", "id": "5cae78f649f0eacbf1f8280a", "date": "2019-04-10T23:13:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Knows a Thing Or Two About Government ‘Spying’", "full_text": " The attorney general said he is concerned about potentially unlawful surveillance of the Trump campaign. In 1992, he oversaw a program that may have done exactly that to other Americans. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. The attorney general of the United States has concerns about illegal government spying.  At a Senate hearing on Wednesday, William Barr confirmed that he will look into whether the Trump campaign was subject to unlawful surveillance in the run-up to the 2016 election. The Justice Department’s inspector general, Michael Horowitz, is already investigating the matter, and Mr. Barr says the review is nearly done.  But instead of letting his watchdog finish his work, Mr. Barr would rather look into the matter himself. “Yes, I think spying did occur,” Mr. Barr said early in the hearing, later amending the record to clarify that he was “not saying that improper surveillance occurred.” “I am saying that I am concerned about it and looking into it. That is all,” he added. Before day’s end, Fox News was amplifying the attorney general’s worries, which the president then shared on Twitter. Whatever comes of Mr. Barr’s review and the conspiracy theories that ensue, he would be wise to reflect on his own history with government surveillance that stretched the limits of the law. Just last month, Mr. Horowitz’s office concluded that the Justice Department and the Drug Enforcement Administration “failed to conduct a comprehensive legal analysis” when the two agencies undertook a secret surveillance program in the 1990s that swept up records of Americans’ phone calls — the kind of bulk collection that the National Security Agency later engaged in after 9/11. The D.E.A. program dates back to 1992, when Mr. Barr first led the Justice Department under President George H.W. Bush. Relying on so-called administrative subpoenas, the D.E.A. would go on fishing expeditions, vacuuming up metadata from billions of phone calls to more than 100 countries, according to a 2015 USA Today investigation. The inspector general’s office found it “troubling” that the government’s collection entailed a “uniquely expansive” reading of the law; under the program, officials would issue subpoenas for records without first determining that they were “relevant or material” to a specific investigation, as the law requires. The inspector general also suggested that the D.E.A. abused its authority because the records were then shared with other federal agencies that had nothing to do with drug enforcement. One thing the inspector general report makes clear: Mr. Barr was in charge as this program came into being and “provided approval” for its deployment without appropriate legal review. In the future, if Mr. Barr wants to move forward with a similar bulk-collection program, “the Department should conduct a rigorous, objective legal analysis, memorialized in writing, in advance of initiating such a program,” the report said. Words to ponder as the attorney general, now in his second tour leading the Justice Department, expresses concern over the reach of government surveillance. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cafde6649f0eacbf1f83253", "date": "2019-04-12T00:38:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Congress Waits as Barr Blacks Out Parts of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Investigators for the special counsel spent months trying to get answers from President Trump: what he knew about a meeting between senior campaign aides and Russians; about changes to the Republican Party platform making it more Russia-friendly; about his associates’ outreach to WikiLeaks as it prepared to publish Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. After months of resistance, his lawyers finally turned over written answers in November to those questions and others. But the public has not seen them. Now, the question of whether they become part of the available history of Russia’s 2016 election interference and its aftermath — along with whatever else the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, may have gathered — turns on Attorney General William P. Barr. Since Mr. Mueller submitted a nearly 400-page report on his investigation two weeks ago, Mr. Barr, his aides and other law enforcement officials have been reviewing it to determine which portions to provide to lawmakers and the public — and what to black out. Democrats in Congress, who have demanded to see the entire document, have expressed growing impatience with Mr. Barr. And members of Mr. Mueller’s team have told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately convey findings that were damaging to Mr. Trump in a letter he sent to Congress two weeks ago laying out their chief conclusions. Mr. Barr has promised to give lawmakers — by mid-April, “if not sooner” — as much of the report as possible, subject to several categories of necessary deletions. But much will turn on how expansively or narrowly he interprets those categories. The first category that Mr. Barr planned to black out is secret grand jury information. A federal rule of criminal procedure generally forbids disclosure of such material, like citing a witness’s testimony before the jury or a disclosing that a document was obtained with a grand jury subpoena. Notably, however, for the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, the special counsel gathered information from witnesses primarily through F.B.I. interviews, according to lawyers familiar with the inquiry. Mr. Barr could share grand jury information with Congress if a judge issues an order permitting it, as happened in 1974 during the Watergate scandal. But it is not clear whether the Trump administration’s Justice Department would consent or instead fight any request by lawmakers to see the grand jury material. Nor is it clear that such a ruling would extend to letting the public see that material. It is also not clear whether a key difference from 1974 — the House Judiciary Committee had already opened an impeachment inquiry against President Richard M. Nixon, but none are pending against Mr. Trump — would change the outcome. On Friday, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in an unrelated case, adopted a narrow reading of when courts may authorize the disclosure of grand-jury information and criticized the legal basis for the Watergate precedent, but stopped short of overturning it. Still, Samuel W. Buell, a Duke University law professor and former prosecutor, said the House should ask a judge to intervene. “There is going to be an awful lot of redaction, and the question becomes, ‘What is Congress going to do about that?’” he said. “It seems to me that they can and should go to court. It’s not up to the Justice Department to make the final decision about what Congress sees.” The second category Mr. Barr has identified for redaction is “material the intelligence community identifies as potentially compromising sensitive sources and methods.” Mr. Mueller has already disclosed some elements of his findings in the indictments of Russians for their clandestine manipulations of American social media and their hacking of Democratic emails. But it is virtually certain that Mr. Mueller learned more than what was on display in those court filings — including information whose disclosure could reveal secret American intelligence sources about the Russian government’s inner workings. While all members of Congress have security clearances, Mr. Barr may decide that to reduce the possibility of leaks, certain findings from Mr. Mueller’s investigation can be told only to the intelligence committees, or even just the Gang of Eight, the top congressional leaders and the leaders of the intelligence panels. The third category Mr. Barr has said will be off limits to Congress is “material that could affect other ongoing matters, including those that the special counsel has referred to other department offices.” In the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller uncovered information about potential crimes that fell outside his core mandate and handed that evidence to other federal prosecutors. The Southern District of New York, for example, handled the prosecution of Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, for campaign finance and other crimes. That district is also now looking at the Trump inauguration committee’s finances, aspects of which the special counsel’s office previously scrutinized. The special counsel also developed cases that are not yet resolved, including the indictment in Washington of Roger J. Stone Jr., Mr. Trump’s longtime associate and adviser, as well as a dispute over a subpoena with an unidentified foreign-owned corporation. And there is something of a wild card: The F.B.I. has an open-ended counterintelligence investigation into Russia. The fourth category Mr. Barr has said he will redact is “information that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.” The Justice Department traditionally does not make public unflattering information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime. By focusing on “peripheral” people, Mr. Barr has indicated that some people are so central to the investigation — presumably including Mr. Trump himself — that he may make an exception and allow more abundant material to go to Congress and become public. But much may depend on his decisions about who counts as central and who counts as a bit player. There are several types of privilege that could come into play. One is executive privilege, a power of presidents to keep secret from Congress certain internal executive branch information, like communications involving the president or his close advisers and, sometimes, internal agency deliberations. Another is attorney-client privilege, the power to keep secret a client’s discussions with his lawyer. Mr. Trump permitted his aides and legal advisers who might fall under one or both of those privileges, like the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, to speak to Mr. Mueller’s team. But it is not clear whether that waiver would extend to sharing information with Congress, and there are few court precedents to define the limits of that secrecy power. Mr. Barr has told Congress, “Although the president would have the right to assert privilege over certain parts of the report, he has stated publicly that he intends to defer to me and, accordingly, there are no plans to submit the report to the White House for a privilege review.” But what he meant is ambiguous, and the Justice Department has declined to provide clarity. Katie Benner contributed reporting.  ", "id": "5ca9bc7149f0eacbf1f816a6", "date": "2019-04-07T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Senate Confirms William Barr as Attorney General", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Senate confirmed William P. Barr on Thursday for a second stint as attorney general, handing oversight of the Justice Department — and its investigation into links between Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the Trump campaign — to a seasoned Republican legal hand known for his expansive view of presidential power. Mr. Barr was sworn in hours later, beginning a new chapter for a department that has been battered by criticism from President Trump. The president lost confidence in and publicly scorned his first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, after he recused himself from overseeing the Russia investigation. The department was further rattled when Mr. Trump installed a relatively inexperienced loyalist, Matthew G. Whitaker, Mr. Sessions’s chief of staff, as a temporary replacement in November. Mr. Barr faces an array of challenges, not least retaining the confidence of both Mr. Trump and Congress as he steers the department through the anticipated conclusion of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and the question of whether and how to make any report from Mr. Mueller public. Morale has suffered among the department’s 115,000 employees amid accusations that its work has been politicized. And Mr. Barr will presumably want to put his own stamp on the administration’s agenda following Mr. Sessions, who for all his problems with the president pushed successfully to put in place conservative policies on civil rights, voting rights, immigration, drugs, policing and crime, among other issues. When Mr. Barr accepted Mr. Trump’s offer to be nominated for the job, “he saw the department as an institution facing some very challenging times,” said George J. Terwilliger, who served as the deputy attorney general under Mr. Barr in the 1990s. In the latest example of the extraordinary strains the Trump presidency has put on the department, a former deputy F.B.I. director, Andrew G. McCabe, said in an interview broadcast on Thursday that in May 2017, top department officials discussed whether to recruit cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove the president from office. Mr. Barr’s ability to treat the special counsel’s investigation fairly has been questioned ever since it emerged that he wrote a 19-page memo last summer arguing that Mr. Mueller should not treat Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, as obstruction of justice. “There are some people who are very concerned given the 19-page memo that he wrote,” said Neal Katyal, who was acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama. The Senate voted 54-45 to confirm William P. Barr as attorney general. “Barr needs to bring back respect for the rule of law and ensure that law enforcement is treated as the nonpartisan, public safety and public-good-oriented organization that it has been for decades,” Mr. Katyal said. The department has been under public, political attack from the moment Mr. Mueller was given the job in May 2017 of investigating whether the Trump campaign had worked with Russia to sway the election. Inside the department, career employees worried that Mr. Sessions was politicizing its day-to-day work and redefining who deserved civil rights protections, particularly on matters like gay rights and the oversight of police departments that had histories of racial discrimination. Mr. Barr assured senators during the confirmation process that he would not allow political interference to sway the department’s work, but under pressure from Democrats, he would make no specific assurances to make Mr. Mueller’s findings public. Divided over whether to accept his assurances, the Senate voted largely along party lines, 54 to 45, to confirm Mr. Barr. A handful of senators broke from their parties. One libertarian-leaning Republican, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, voted against Mr. Barr, citing concerns over his sweeping view of executive power. Three Democrats from conservative or swing states — Senators Doug Jones of Alabama, Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia — supported Mr. Barr. Mr. Barr previously served as attorney general from 1991 to 1993, under President George Bush, before spending the last quarter-century as a corporate lawyer — much of it with the telecommunications company that became Verizon. With that experience, he could bring a pro-corporate point of view to the work of the department’s antitrust division. While Mr. Barr served on the board of Time Warner, the Justice Department tried to block the company’s merger with AT&T in 2017. Mr. Barr said in a legal filing in the case that the department’s decision was “inexplicable” and could have been motivated by a desire to satisfy Mr. Trump’s personal animus toward CNN, which is owned by Time Warner. “As a former attorney general,” Mr. Barr wrote at the time, “that is disturbing to me.” Even before the confirmation vote, Mr. Barr was planning steps to begin putting his imprint on the department. He intends to call on Jeffrey A. Rosen, the current deputy transportation secretary, to serve as deputy attorney general, two people briefed on the choice said. His nomination would be subject to a Senate vote. Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller and oversaw his work until late last year, plans to remain at the department for a transition period expected to last only a few weeks. Like Mr. Barr, Mr. Rosen was a longtime lawyer at the firm Kirkland & Ellis, where he was a member of its global management team. He held senior positions at the Office of Management and Budget and the Transportation Department during President George W. Bush’s administration. But Mr. Rosen’s lack of prosecutorial experience makes him a somewhat unusual choice, given that one of his main jobs will be to oversee the United States attorney’s offices, and the department’s national security division. “All of the Justice Department’s national security and law enforcement components report directly to the deputy attorney general, so it’s helpful if that person has had past experience in those areas,” said Matthew S. Axelrod, who was the top aide to Sally Q. Yates, a deputy attorney general during the Obama administration. While Mr. Barr largely sailed through his confirmation process, Democrats expressed concern about how he would handle the special counsel’s investigation and other inquiries by federal prosecutors in New York looking at Mr. Trump’s campaign, his business and his inaugural committee. Democrats seized on the lengthy legal memo that Mr. Barr wrote in June for the Trump administration and shared with Mr. Trump’s outside legal team. It argued that the president wielded unchecked power to “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding,” and therefore Mr. Mueller should not be allowed to investigate whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction of justice by pressuring Mr. Comey to drop an investigation into a top aide. And Mr. Barr resisted making any specific commitments or pledges to Democrats to make public Mr. Mueller’s final report, saying instead he would be as transparent as possible and obey all Justice Department regulations for special counsel investigations. Those rules envision a report to the attorney general, who then sends a separate notification to Congress explaining that the investigation has ended. Republicans said those assurances were sufficient. But Democrats were not satisfied. “Everything that is my concern is in the memo, the 19-page memo he wrote five months before he was appointed,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee. “To me, it was an invitation to be appointed with his support for the unitary executive and the all-powerful president.” Kate Kelly contributed reporting from New York. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  ", "id": "5c65acf63a125f5075c09be8", "date": "2019-02-14T17:59:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Read William Barr’s Letter to Congress on the Mueller Report", "full_text": " Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter late Friday that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election and delivered a report to the Department of Justice.  See the letter here and read a transcript below. [What’s next? We break it down as well as the major moments in the case. And here’s the latest analysis on Trump and the Mueller report.] ________________________ Dear Chairman Graham, Chairman Nadler, Ranking Member Feinstein, and Ranking Member Collins: I write to notify you pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(a)(3) that Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III has concluded his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election and related matters. In addition to this notification, the Special Counsel regulations require that I provide you with “a description and explanation of instances (if any) in which the Attorney General” or acting Attorney General “concluded that a proposed action by a Special Counsel was so inappropriate or unwarranted under established Departmental practices that it should not be pursued.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(a)(3). There were no such instances during the Special Counsel’s investigation. The Special Counsel has submitted to me today a “confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions” he has reached, as required by 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c). I am reviewing the report and anticipate that I may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsel’s principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. Separately, I intend to consult with Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Special Counsel Mueller to determine what other information from the report can be released to Congress and the public consistent with the law, including the Special Counsel regulations, and the Department’s long-standing practices and policies. I remain committed to as much transparency as possible, and I will keep you informed as to the status of my review. Finally, the Special Counsel regulations provide that “the Attorney General may determine that public release of” this notification “would be in the public interest.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(c). I have so determined, and I will disclose this letter to the public after delivering it to you. Sincerely, William P. Barr Attorney General More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.    ", "id": "5c95588c49f0eacbf105e962", "date": "2019-03-22T21:48:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr to Release Redacted Mueller Report Within a Week", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday he expects to release a redacted version of the special counsel's Trump-Russia investigation report \"within a week.\" Barr told members of Congress at his first public appearance since receiving special counsel Robert Mueller's report that his earlier projection of releasing a version by mid-April still stood. The report, which is nearly 400 pages long, is being scoured now to remove grand jury information and details that relate to pending investigations. Democrats scolded Barr over his handling of the report, telling him they were concerned that a summary of its main conclusions he released last month portrayed the investigation's findings in an overly favorable way for President Donald Trump. Rep. Nita Lowey, the Democratic chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said she was taken aback that Barr had reduced Mueller's report to a four-page letter in just two days. That letter said that Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates, and that Barr did not believe the evidence in the report was sufficient to prove the president had obstructed justice. \"Even for someone who has done this job before, I would argue it's more suspicious than impressive,\" Lowey said. Explaining the rapid turnaround for his letter, Barr said, \"The thinking of the special counsel was not a mystery to the Department of Justice prior to the submission of the report.\" Barr was summoned to Congress to talk about his department's budget request, but lawmakers still asked about the Mueller report as they waited to see it. Barr's prepared remarks, sent to the committee on Monday, focused on funding requests for immigration enforcement and the fights against violent crime and opioid addiction, not mentioning the special counsel's report at all. Mueller sent his final report to Barr on March 22, ending his almost two-year investigation into possible ties between Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and Russia. Barr released a four-page letter summarizing the report two days later and said he would release a redacted version of the full report by mid-April, \"if not sooner.\" The new attorney general's budget testimony — traditionally a dry affair, and often addressing the parochial concerns of lawmakers — came as Democrats were enraged that he was redacting material from the report and frustrated that his summary framed a narrative about Trump before they were able to see the full version. The Democrats are demanding that they see the full report and all its underlying evidence, though Trump and his Republican allies are pushing back. The chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee, Democratic Rep. Jose Serrano of New York, told Barr there were \"serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report.\" Barr said in the summary released last month that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. He also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice, instead presenting evidence on both sides of the question. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided that the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction. Facing the intensifying concerns from Democrats that he may have whitewashed Mueller's findings, Barr has twice moved to defend, or at least explain, his handling of the process since receiving the special counsel's report. He has said that he did not intend for his four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions to be an \"exhaustive recounting\" of his work and that he could not immediately release the entire report because it included grand jury material and other sensitive information that needed to be redacted. He is likely to be asked to further explain himself at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing Wednesday that is also on the budget. Barr is to testify on the report itself at separate hearings before the Senate and House Judiciary committees on May 1 and May 2. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat and chairman of the House Judiciary panel, confirmed the May 2 date on Twitter and said he would like Mueller to testify. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., has said he would be satisfied hearing only from Barr and not Mueller.", "id": "5caf82b549f0eacbf1f82ed2", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr to Release Mueller Report 'Within a Week'", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr said on Tuesday he expected to release next week the public version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on whether President Donald Trump's campaign worked with Moscow to influence the 2016 election. \"Within a week I will be in position to release that report to the public and then I will engage with the chairmen of both judiciary committees about that report, about any further requests that they have,\" Barr said during a House Appropriations Committee hearing.   (Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)", "id": "5cacc00f49f0eacbf1f81eb8", "date": "2019-04-09T15:52:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Under Oath", "full_text": " Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher In a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, William P. Barr, the nominee for attorney general, vowed to protect the Justice Department and seemed to tell senators what they wanted to hear. But was it what the president wanted to hear? On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who covers national security and federal investigations for The New York Times. Background reading: Mr. Barr assured senators that he would allow the special counsel to complete the Russia investigation and protect the integrity of the Justice Department.  He also qualified some of his expansive views of executive power and defended an unsolicited memo he wrote criticizing a part of the special counsel investigation. Catch up with what happened on the first day of his confirmation hearing. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “William Barr Under Oath” was produced by Rachel Quester and Ike Sriskandarajah, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c3f0eb63a125f5075c04ad5", "date": "2019-01-16T11:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Latest: Lawmakers Push Barr on Mueller Report Release", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Latest on Attorney General William Barr's testimony to Congress (all times local): 9:50 a.m. The chairman of a House appropriations subcommittee says it would be a serious blow to democracy if special counsel Robert Mueller's full report on the Russia investigation is not fully made public. Attorney General William Barr is testifying before the subcommittee on Tuesday. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said he has concerns about the process Barr used to draft a four-page letter of Mueller's \"principal conclusions\" last month. Mueller concluded his investigation in late March and turned over a nearly 400-page report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general then sent the four-page document to Congress. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be made public in mid-April. Serrano said Americans have been \"left with many unanswered questions\" about Mueller's investigation. __ 12:40 a.m. Attorney General William Barr is facing congressional lawmakers for the first time since receiving the special counsel's report on the Russia investigation. Barr appears Tuesday before a House appropriations subcommittee, where he's expected to face questions about the forthcoming release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. The Justice Department is preparing to release within days a redacted version of Mueller's report into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Barr said in a four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. The attorney general has also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction.", "id": "5caf82bf49f0eacbf1f82edc", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Attorney General William Barr Thinks ‘Spying Did Occur’ on Trump Campaign", "full_text": " • Attorney General William P. Barr, appearing before Congress for a second straight day on Wednesday, said the government spied on the Trump campaign and said he would look into whether any rules were violated. • Mr. Barr signaled he was open to sharing more information with lawmakers about the redacted Mueller report than is released to the public and that he “hoped” to make it public “next week.” • Meanwhile, the Senate Judiciary Committee is considering the nomination of Jeffrey A. Rosen, President Trump’s nominee to succeed Rod J. Rosenstein, who appointed and oversaw the special counsel, as deputy attorney general. With the Russia investigation complete, Mr. Barr said he was preparing to review “both the genesis and the conduct of intelligence activities directed at the Trump campaign,” including possible improper “spying” by American intelligence agencies. “I think spying on a political campaign is a big deal,” Mr. Barr said, adding that he believed “spying did occur.” Mr. Trump and his allies have accused the F.B.I. and other government officials of abusing their power and cooking up the Russia investigation to sabotage the president. “I am not suggesting that those rules were violated, but I think it’s important to look at them,” Mr. Barr said. Later he said he wanted to ensure that there was no “improper surveillance” — not suggesting there had been, but that the possibility warranted review. It was not immediately clear what Mr. Barr was referring to, and he did not present evidence to back up his statement. The F.B.I. obtained a secret surveillance warrant on a former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page, after he left the campaign, and reports have suggested it used at least one confidential informer to collect information on campaign associates. Mr. Barr said that he will work with the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray, to examine the origins of the bureau’s counterintelligence investigation of the Trump campaign, and that he would soon set up a team for that effort. He noted that Congress and the Justice Department’s inspector general have already completed investigations of that matter, and that after reviewing those investigations he would be able to see whether there were any “remaining questions to be addressed.” Under intense questioning from Democratic senators, Mr. Barr further pulled back the curtain on the Justice Department’s handling of the special counsel investigation, though only by a few inches. Mr. Barr shed some additional light on Mr. Mueller’s decision not to reach a prosecutorial decision about whether Mr. Trump criminally obstructed the investigation and his own decision to conclude in his letter to Congress delivering the investigation’s conclusions last month that the evidence did not meet that bar. Mr. Barr said he had spoken with Mr. Mueller about why he did not reach a decision on obstruction of justice, but declined to offer details of their conversations. The attorney general said that Mr. Mueller did not explicitly ask that Congress be allowed to judge the evidence and decide for itself, nor did he say that the attorney general should. “But that is generally how the Department of Justice works,” Mr. Barr said, saying that the department’s job is to make prosecutorial decisions — and he had. “I am looking forward to explaining my decision that I briefly outlined in the March 24 letter, but I don’t think I can do it until the report is out,” he said. On the timing of the redacted report’s release, Mr. Barr said Wednesday that he “hoped” to make it public “next week.” The answer differed slightly from what he told House lawmakers on Tuesday, that he intended to put out the report “within a week.” He said Justice Department lawyers and members of Mr. Mueller’s team, who are reviewing the report for sensitive information to black out before release, would not remove information that would harm the “reputational interests” of Mr. Trump. Mr. Barr also said that he had not overruled Mr. Mueller’s team on any proposed redactions from the Mueller report, and had not discussed with the White House what he was blacking out. Democrats in the House have slammed Mr. Barr for what they view as his refusal to share the investigation’s underlying evidence and material he may redact from the report. But Mr. Barr told senators on Wednesday he would be willing to re-evaluate that decision to try to accommodate lawmakers’ concerns. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” he said. Democratic lawmakers argue that they need such material so they can fully understand the implications of Mr. Mueller’s findings and judge whether or not Mr. Barr had fairly represented what was found. In the House, they have already approved a subpoena to issue to try to compel the release of this kind of information. Mr. Barr again declined to say whether he had briefed the White House on the fuller Mueller report, even though Justice Department officials had previously said it had not been shown to the White House. His refusal to say one way or the other raised the possibility that since then, the Justice Department may have briefed Mr. Trump or his inner circle about its contents. “I’m landing the plane right now,” Mr. Barr said under Democratic questioning. “I have been willing to discuss my letter and the process going forward. The report is going to be out next week and I’m not just going into the details of the process.” Interest in the report remains intense among congressional lawmakers. President Trump, not so much. Speaking to reporters as he left the White House on Wednesday, the president slammed the investigation as an illegal “attempted coup.” But he said he had “won” and could care less about the report itself. “I have not seen the Mueller report,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “I have not read the Mueller report. I won. No collusion, no obstruction. I won. Everybody knows I won.” He continued: “As far as I’m concerned I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” The report, which runs nearly 400 pages, is likely to be less black and white. Mr. Barr has said Mr. Mueller did not find the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to undermine the 2016 election, but he has said that the special counsel’s team did not reach a prosecutorial decision about whether Mr. Trump criminally obstructed the investigation. Mr. Barr, assessing the evidence for himself, concluded the evidence did not meet that bar. Meanwhile, at the Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearing for Mr. Rosen, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, pressed the nominee to commit to allowing all pending criminal matters related to the special counsel’s investigation to proceed without improper political interference. “If I am confirmed, I would expect in all prosecutorial matters to proceed on the facts and the law and not any improper political influences,” Mr. Rosen replied. Ms. Klobuchar did not name which matters she had in mind, though several cases are still working their way through the court system. But Mr. Mueller’s office obtained the indictment of Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime informal adviser to President Trump, and is handing that matter off to regular prosecutors to bring to trial. The Mueller team also investigated other matters, like the finances of the Trump inauguration committee, which continue to be investigated elsewhere. Under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Rosen defended his role in crafting a Trump administration proposal on tailpipe pollution rules. Ms. Feinstein referred to a New York Times article that portrayed him as pushing to let cars emit more greenhouse gases. Mr. Rosen said the article had several errors, although he did not identify them. He also said the issue was how to implement a law that required annual increases in fuel economy standards through 2020, and then set criteria for decisions about whether to require any further escalations in the years after that. The Trump administration, he said, was merely proposing a “time out” after 2020. In fact, the current regulations, put forth by the Obama administration, already require automakers to keep improving the fuel economy of passenger vehicles through 2025. The Trump administration’s preferred proposal would therefore allow more greenhouse gas pollution than current rules. Mr. Rosen also portrayed himself as playing a “managerial” role in overseeing the crafting of the rule, such as by ensuring deadlines were met. But 11 people interviewed by The New York Times at the time of the negotiation said that Mr. Rosen pushed forcefully for that outcome. Coral Davenport contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5cadd41849f0eacbf1f82496", "date": "2019-04-10T11:30:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Integrity of William Barr", "full_text": " He should not be required to recuse himself from the Mueller investigation.  Mr. Starr was the independent counsel during the Whitewater investigation. After the stormy tenure of Jeff Sessions as attorney general, the likely return of William Barr to the job — which he held with distinction under President George H.W. Bush — has been greeted with sighs of relief at the Justice Department. The reason is not hard to divine: Bill Barr is an accomplished lawyer with a deep respect for the law and for the integrity and independence of the department — something I know from having served under him. After his solid performance before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, he seems almost certain to be approved by the full Senate.  His critics have focused on a 19-page legal memorandum he sent over the summer to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein questioning whether the special counsel, Robert Mueller, could investigate the president for violating criminal obstruction-of-justice laws. Democrats have demanded that if confirmed, Mr. Barr should recuse himself from overseeing the Mueller inquiry. But that response to Mr. Barr’s meticulous legal analysis is wildly overwrought.  A more dispassionate review of Mr. Barr’s memo shows that he was trying to prevent an unprecedented expansion of a federal criminal statute intended to prevent crimes such as destroying evidence, bribing prospective jurors, intimidating witnesses and the like. The memorandum expressly acknowledges that presidents, like other citizens, can run afoul of the criminal laws. But he questions whether a president can be investigated for actions that are expressly within his constitutional powers — such as firing an F.B.I. director. He is sounding a clear warning against prosecutorial overreach. Indeed, one of Mr. Mueller’s senior prosecutors was a primary architect of a legal theory of obstruction that was unanimously rejected by the Supreme Court, a rebuff delivered only after the prosecution caused the collapse of a major accounting firm, Arthur Andersen. That example does not stand alone. In case after case, a wary — and frequently unanimous — Supreme Court has knocked down legal theories drummed up by well-meaning but overly zealous federal prosecutors. The inherent danger of prosecutorial overreach, the Barr memorandum emphasized, is all the more acute when applied in the sensitive context of presidential power. Firing James Comey, the F.B.I. director, may have been wise or unwise, but it should not in conscience be stretched to accuse a sitting president of criminal conduct. Nor should the mere expression of hope that Mr. Comey would go easy on Mr. Trump’s embattled national security adviser, Michael Flynn, somehow be transmogrified into a violation of federal law. To do so would flout first principles in our constitutional order of separated powers. Holding the president accountable for the exercise of his powers under Article II of the Constitution is a task entrusted to Congress, not to a largely unaccountable special counsel. Fairly reviewed, the Barr memorandum is a dispassionate analysis that provides an important perspective to the senior leadership of the Justice Department. Indeed, it bears emphasis that the memorandum also went to Steve Engel, the head of the department’s Office of Legal Counsel, which provides the president legal advice. This is the same office that has issued formal opinions in both Republican and Democratic administrations saying that a president cannot be indicted while in office. Mr. Barr makes clear throughout the memorandum that he does not know all the underlying facts and appropriately qualifies his analysis with repeated “it appears” and “apparently.” Those caveats are highly relevant as the Senate deliberates his nomination. They demonstrate the vital quality of a careful lawyer’s open-mindedness, which has been vividly on display in recent days, when Mr. Barr has pledged to protect the independence of the Mueller investigation.  “It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr told the Judiciary Committee. “I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to finish.” Once Mr. Barr is confirmed, the Justice Department’s ethics officers will carefully review whether he should be allowed to oversee the Mueller inquiry. In light of what we know, I see no reason he should step aside. Expressing his legal perspective on a legal theory of obstruction of justice should not come close to justifying the extraordinary action of requiring him to recuse himself from what will be one of the new attorney general’s most pressing responsibilities. The constitutionally ordained process of advise and consent should now be allowed to unfold. I am confident that Bill Barr will respond to all questions and concerns in a fair and honest way. I am also confident that he will be deeply respectful — as a matter of honor and integrity — of whatever advice he receives from the Justice Department’s ethics officers. Based on his long record of distinguished service, the American people can count on him to do the right thing. Kenneth W. Starr, a former president and chancellor of Baylor University, was a former solicitor general in the George H.W. Bush administration. In an earlier version of this article, the description of the author misidentified the investigation for which he served as independent counsel. It was Whitewater, not Watergate.", "id": "5c3f54cd3a125f5075c04b9b", "date": "2019-01-16T15:59:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Justice Dept. Watchdog’s Review of Russia Inquiry Is Nearly Done, Barr Says", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Justice Department’s internal watchdog intends to complete by May or June his investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry, including whether law enforcement officials abused their powers in surveilling a former Trump campaign aide, Attorney General William P. Barr told lawmakers on Tuesday. The department’s inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has been examining how law enforcement officials obtained a warrant in October 2016 to wiretap Carter Page, a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign with links to Russia. Mr. Horowitz’s investigators have also asked witnesses about informants that the F.B.I. turned to in the early stages of the investigation, according to people familiar with his inquiry. “The office of the inspector general has a pending investigation of the FISA process in the Russia investigation,” Mr. Barr said in testimony before a House appropriations subcommittee, using shorthand for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “I expect that will be complete in probably May or June, I am told. So hopefully we’ll have some answers from Inspector General Horowitz on the issue of the FISA warrants.” A spokesman for Mr. Horowitz declined to comment on the timing of the expected report. But the inspector general has previously confirmed that he was looking into the early stages of the Russia inquiry, including wiretap applications, informants and whether any political bias against Mr. Trump influenced investigative decisions. Mr. Horowitz’s findings could once again upend the Justice Department and F.B.I., which have been at the center of a political firestorm since the 2016 presidential election over their handling of separate investigations into both Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server and ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. The highly anticipated results of the Russia inquiry are due to be made public “within a week,” Mr. Barr said on Tuesday. In the Russia investigation, Republicans have accused law enforcement officials of improperly obtaining the Page warrant because the application relied in part on Democratic-funded opposition research compiled into a dossier by Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who was also an F.B.I. informant. At issue is whether the F.B.I. and Justice Department made any misrepresentations to the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court when seeking the warrant, or if they should have flagged any concerns about the credibility of the information in the application during renewals. If the inspector general finds fault with the F.B.I., it could help validate Republican accusations that the Russia investigation was politically motivated. Mr. Trump’s allies have sought to reduce the inquiry to the problematic Steele dossier and to portray the Page wiretap application as its central feature. However, the bureau opened the counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election meddling — including scrutinizing links to the Trump campaign — based on other information, and without the dossier. And the Page wiretap was only a small part of the broader Trump-Russia investigation: The inquiry involved more than 2,800 subpoenas, nearly 500 search warrants and about 500 witness interviews, Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to Congress describing the conclusions of the coming report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who took over the investigation in May 2017. Law enforcement officials were also granted three renewals of the wiretap from the surveillance court; Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general and a Trump administration appointee, signed the last renewal application, which was granted in June 2017. As part of his investigation, Mr. Horowitz is scrutinizing the F.B.I.’s relationship with Mr. Steele, who provided the politically charged information to the agents trying to determine whether any of Mr. Trump’s associates were secretly working with the Russian government’s campaign to meddle in the 2016 election. Top F.B.I. officials received the Steele information in September 2016 as they were debating whether to obtain the secret warrant to surveil Mr. Page. Among claims that Mr. Steele compiled from sources was that Mr. Page secretly met a Russian official promising compromising information about Hillary Clinton during a visit to Moscow in July 2016 — an accusation Mr. Page has denied. Critics have argued that the court should have been explicitly told that the research was funded by the Democratic National Committee and the Hillary Clinton campaign, arguing that the court did not know that the information had potentially biased origins. Justice Department practice in filling out applications for secret wiretaps is to avoid naming Americans or American organizations, and the application contained a lengthy footnote alerting the court that an unnamed person who commissioned Mr. Steele’s research was “likely looking for information to discredit” Mr. Trump’s campaign. The footnote went on to explain to the court that Mr. Steele had “provided reliable information to the F.B.I.” in earlier investigations and that based on that history, the bureau believed his latest information was “credible.” The inspector general has also been examining Mr. Steele’s contributions to previous F.B.I.’s investigations, according to the people familiar with the inquiry. Investigators for Mr. Horowitz have asked about his role in helping the bureau investigate corruption at FIFA, the governing body of world soccer, suggesting that one focus of his is whether the bureau exaggerated Mr. Steele’s previous history with the bureau in its application to wiretap Mr. Page. One of the debates surrounding the F.B.I.’s use of information from the Steele dossier in the application is whether it was all crucial to meeting the standard for eavesdropping on Mr. Page’s phone calls and emails. Asked whether he would have signed off on submitting the application if it did not contain that allegation, James A. Baker, who was the general counsel of the F.B.I. when it first sought permission to wiretap Mr. Page, called the allegation about Mr. Page’s visit to Moscow in 2016 “an important” part of the factual case for surveillance. “I am not going to sit here and say that there wouldn’t have been probable cause or that there would have been probable cause without the dossier,” Mr. Baker told lawmakers in the fall who were scrutinizing law enforcement officials’ actions during the 2016 election, according to a  transcript of his testimony released on Tuesday. But, he also said, “there were other things in that application that to me were alarming, as well.” Another F.B.I. lawyer involved in obtaining the warrant, Sally Moyer, told the same committees in October that it was “a close call” but “I think we would have gotten there on probable cause even without the Steele reporting,” a transcript of her testimony showed. In publicly released documents, the F.B.I. said it had decided to end its relationship with Mr. Steele in November 2016 after he spoke to the news media about his work for the F.B.I. after bureau officials had asked him not to do so. The inspector general is also scrutinizing another early source of information for the Russia investigation, the people said: Mr. Horowitz’s investigators have been asking questions about the role of Stefan A. Halper, another F.B.I. informant, and his prior work for the bureau. Agents involved in the Russia investigation asked Mr. Halper, an American academic who teaches in Britain, to gather information on Mr. Page and George Papadopoulos, another former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. However, Mr. Halper also had additional contacts with other Trump officials that have raised concerns about his activities. In one instance, Mr. Halper reached out to Sam Clovis, a Trump campaign aide; it was not clear whether Mr. Halper had the F.B.I.’s blessing to contact Mr. Clovis. Mr. Halper’s contacts have prompted Republicans and the president to incorrectly accuse the F.B.I. of spying on the campaign. Mr. Page has also said he met with Mr. Halper in mid-July 2016, about two weeks before the Russia investigation was opened. In addition, the inspector general is examining Mr. Steele’s contacts with Bruce Ohr, a Justice Department official, according to the people familiar with the inquiry. Mr. Ohr, an expert on Russian organized crime and himself a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s ire, spoke with Mr. Steele several times after the F.B.I. terminated its relationship with the former British spy, and relayed information from those conversations to the bureau. Mr. Barr, who was sworn in two months ago, also said that as he was awaiting the outcome of that inquiry, he was studying the F.B.I.’s decision in 2016 to begin investigating ties between Russia and Mr. Trump’s campaign, “trying to get my arms around all the aspects of the counterintelligence investigation that was conducted during the summer of 2016,” he said. Follow Adam Goldman and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT and @charlie_savage   ", "id": "5cad051849f0eacbf1f8214f", "date": "2019-04-09T20:46:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Pelosi: Attorney General Barr 'Off the Rails' on Mueller Report", "full_text": " LEESBURG, Va. — U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi castigated Attorney General William Barr on Wednesday for comments he made during congressional hearings this week about the federal probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election. \"Let me just say, I'm very, very dismayed and disappointed that the chief law enforcement officer of our country is going off the rails yesterday and today,\" Pelosi told reporters at a Democratic Party retreat in Virginia. \"He is attorney general of the United States of America, not the attorney general of Donald Trump.\" Pelosi said Democrats first of all want to see Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 election and any links to the Trump campaign.  Russia's activities were an assault on U.S. democracy - \"there is no doubt about that,\" Pelosi said.  During two congressional hearings this week, Barr defended his handling of the 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22 after a two-year investigation.  It was the attorney general released a four-page letter to Congress providing a broad outline of its assessments. Barr said he would make public a redacted version of the report next week. Democrats have been calling for full disclosure. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on Trump's 2016 campaign, but acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Alistair Bell)", "id": "5cae7ddc49f0eacbf1f8283d", "date": "2019-04-10T23:34:26+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Vows to Let Mueller Finish Investigation", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — William P. Barr, President Trump’s nominee for attorney general, assured senators at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday that he would permit the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to complete the Russia investigation and said he was determined to resist any pressure from Mr. Trump to use law enforcement for political purposes. Mr. Barr, whose confirmation seems virtually assured, pointed to his age and background — he served as attorney general from 1991 to 1993 — as buffers to potential intrusions on the Justice Department’s traditional independence. He suggested he had no further political aspirations that might cloud his judgment, the way that future ambitions might give pause to a younger nominee, as well as the experience to fight political interference. “I am in a position in life where I can provide the leadership necessary to protect the independence and reputation of the department,” Mr. Barr, 68, told the Senate Judiciary Committee, adding that he would not hesitate to resign if Mr. Trump pushed him to act improperly. “I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong — by anybody, whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president,” Mr. Barr said. “I’m going to do what I think is right.” He also pledged that he would refuse any order from Mr. Trump either to fire Mr. Mueller without good cause in violation of regulations or to rescind those rules first. “It is in the best interest of everyone — the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people — that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work,” Mr. Barr said. Mr. Barr’s first stint as attorney general came under President George Bush, who was known for his prudent and measured approach. If confirmed, Mr. Barr would serve under a president hardly known for self-restraint. Mr. Trump repeatedly excoriated Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, which Mr. Trump has called a “witch hunt,” and pushed him to open criminal investigations into political adversaries like Hillary Clinton. [President Trump says he alone can do it. His attorney general nominee usually agrees.] Over hours of testimony, Mr. Barr displayed a grasp of policy and demonstrated his experience as a Washington hand and member of the Republican legal establishment. He is expected to be confirmed, both because Republicans control the Senate and because Democrats are deeply suspicious of Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general whom Mr. Trump installed after ousting Mr. Sessions in November. “Mr. Barr is qualified by any reasonable standard,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the committee’s chairman, said after the hearing, adding that he saw no reason to doubt Mr. Barr would be confirmed. “And if he’s not qualified, I don’t know who they are ever going to pick.” During his testimony, Mr. Barr described being asked whether he was interested in joining Mr. Trump’s defense team in June 2017 by a friend of the president’s. Although Mr. Barr agreed to meet with Mr. Trump — and told him, he said, that Mr. Mueller was both a personal friend and “a straight shooter who should be dealt with as such” — he declined to join his legal team. “My wife and I were sort of looking forward to a bit of respite, and I didn’t want to stick my head into that meat grinder,” Mr. Barr said. Asked by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, why as a “rational person” he would want the job after seeing Mr. Trump’s “unrelenting criticism” of Mr. Sessions, Mr. Barr portrayed himself as an institutionalist. “Because I love the department and all its components, including the F.B.I.,” Mr. Barr said. “I think they are critical institutions that are essential to preserving the rule of law, which is the heartbeat of this country.” Mr. Barr’s testimony also touched on many other issues. Regarding Mr. Trump’s demand for funding for a border wall, which has prompted the longest government shutdown in American history, Mr. Barr expressed qualified support for expanding barriers along the border with Mexico where they could be part of “common sense” immigration enforcement. But he sidestepped questions about whether Mr. Trump could lawfully redirect military funds to build a wall without congressional authorization, as the president has threatened to invoke emergency powers to do. Asked by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, about remarks he made in 2005 defending the George W. Bush administration’s “enhanced interrogation techniques” program and the idea that it was lawful to use “pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk” so long as it does not cross the line to torture, Mr. Barr said he would obey and uphold a 2015 law restricting American interrogators to using only those techniques listed in the Army Field Manual. Under questioning about whether he had sought to push out the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, who is widely expected to leave if Mr. Barr is confirmed, the nominee said he had not — and, indeed, had asked Mr. Rosenstein to stay on longer for a transition period. And he assured senators from both parties that his views on the criminal justice system had evolved from the early 1990s, when he advocated stiffer sentences for drug offenders, and that he would fully carry out substantial sentencing and prison law changes passed last month. But the hearing repeatedly returned to Russia’s attempts to manipulate the American election process and the open investigation by Mr. Mueller into Moscow’s campaign of subversion — and possible links to Mr. Trump and his associates. Early in the hearing, Mr. Graham brought up the F.B.I.’s newly revealed counterintelligence investigation into whether the president was working with the Russians, asking incredulously whether Mr. Barr had “heard of such a thing in all the time you have been associated with the department.” When Mr. Barr answered that he had not, Mr. Graham sought and obtained Mr. Barr’s assurance that he would look into who opened the investigation into the president at the F.B.I. or the Justice Department and to tell the committee whether it was appropriate. Later, Mr. Barr also defended as “entirely proper” his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that laws against obstruction of justice cannot criminalize a president’s use of his constitutional powers — like when Mr. Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director. Insisting he had not been not trying to “ingratiate” himself with the Trump administration by writing the memo, Mr. Barr played it down as based on mere speculation about the basis for Mr. Mueller’s obstruction inquiry. He said that he believed that other potential actions by a president, like witness tampering, would be a legitimate basis for an obstruction investigation. In any case, Mr. Barr repeatedly said he would let Mr. Mueller, whom he described as a friend of his for decades, finish his work and dismissed Mr. Trump’s attacks on the inquiry. “I don’t believe Mr. Mueller would be involved in a witch hunt,” Mr. Barr said. But in another moment, he called Mr. Trump’s use of that term “understandable” and refused to criticize the president’s attacks on Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department. Mr. Barr also appeared to emphasize a softer vision of presidential power than the unusually expansive view he has largely advanced throughout his career — for example, previously portraying the president instead of the attorney general as the nation’s top law-enforcement official, who wields unfettered power to “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding.” His philosophy on executive authority has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency. For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said, “That would be a crime.” He also pledged to seek the advice of ethics lawyers in the Justice Department about whether he should recuse himself from overseeing the Russia inquiry, while stopping short of committing to accepting their recommendation. Late last year, Justice Department ethics officials recommended to Mr. Whitaker that he recuse himself from overseeing that investigation, but Mr. Whitaker declined to do so. Separately, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, announced in a letter on Tuesday that Mr. Whitaker had agreed to testify publicly before his committee on Feb. 8, regardless of the status of the border wall impasse or “whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general.” The hearing promises to be a blockbuster session, and should turn on many of the same questions Mr. Barr faced, including about Mr. Mueller. The fate of Mr. Mueller’s findings — an expected report — was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller’s report to the attorney general would be “confidential,” but that the attorney general would then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the president’s lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani had suggested might occur. “That will not happen,” Mr. Barr said. Adam Goldman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. On Twitter, following Charlie Savage @charlie_savage, Nicholas Fandos @npfandos and Katie Benner @ktbenner.   ", "id": "5c3e40a73a125f5075c048f9", "date": "2019-01-15T19:46:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Out Next Week: Attorney General Barr", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday that a redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election will be released next week. \"I'm landing the plane right now,\" Barr said at a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing. \"I've been willing to discuss my letters and the process going forward, but the report is going to be out next week and I'm just not going to get details of the process until the plane's on the ground.\"  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Alistair Bell)", "id": "5cae1ce649f0eacbf1f82615", "date": "2019-04-10T16:40:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Who Is William Barr: He Will Decide What Happens With Mueller’s Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Now that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has provided Attorney General William P. Barr with a report about his investigation into Russia’s election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, what happens next is up to Mr. Barr. Here are five things to know about the man in possession of one of the most anticipated government documents in history. William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, replacing Dick Thornburgh, who retired for a Senate run. After leaving the Justice Department at the end of the Bush administration, Mr. Barr worked as a corporate lawyer, mostly with the telecommunications company that eventually became Verizon. Born in New York, Mr. Barr, now 68, is married to a retired librarian, and together they have three daughters — all attorneys. One of his daughters and her husband now work at the Justice Department. [What’s next? We break it down as well as the major moments in the case. And here’s the latest analysis on Trump and the Mueller report.] The Constitution, according to Mr. Barr’s interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. “He alone is the executive branch,” Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. “As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution.” The document appeared to criticize Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice. “Thus, the full measure of law enforcement authority is placed in the president’s hands, and no limit is placed on the kinds of cases subject to his control and supervision,” Mr. Barr wrote to senior officials at the Justice Department, months before Mr. Trump named him to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the president’s defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day. “It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know — he said, ‘Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller?’ ” Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: “I didn’t hear — hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo). Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barr’s daughters’s weddings. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was “nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation.” He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the “matter warrants investigation,” and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it. The attorney general at the time, Mr. Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one. An earlier version of this article misstated William Barr’s age. He is 68, not 69.    ", "id": "5c955b6f49f0eacbf105e96d", "date": "2019-03-22T22:00:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Hopes to Update Lawmakers on Mueller Report This Weekend", "full_text": " The attorney general, William P. Barr, will determine how much of the special counsel’s Russia report will be shared with Congress or the public.  The delivery of a report late Friday afternoon from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, to Attorney General William P. Barr might seem like the conclusion of a long-running drama, but it is only the end of the beginning.  Mr. Mueller is not recommending any new charges be filed, a Justice Department official said, but lawmakers conducting their own inquiries will still be able to refer criminal charges to the department. Top members of Congress, and several Democratic presidential candidates, urged Mr. Barr to quickly release as much information as possible. In a letter, Mr. Barr told lawmakers he might be able to share “principal conclusions” of the report this weekend. Mr. Barr will decide how much of the report to release to Congress or the public, and where the case of Russian election interference goes. “The White House has not received or been briefed on the special counsel’s report,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. Mr. Mueller did not suggest additional charges as part of his investigation, when he delivered his findings to Mr. Barr on Friday. This caps the special counsel’s charges at 199, filed against 34 people and three companies. The “principal conclusions” of the special counsel investigation, which Mr. Barr said he might be able to share with lawmakers in the coming days, are not likely to include many details. In a letter to lawmakers, Mr. Barr said he would consult with Mr. Mueller and the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, about what other information from the report can be released. Mr. Mueller’s report could be brief or several hundred pages. It is now up to Mr. Barr to decide how much of it to share with Congress, and when. The late Friday afternoon news dump in Washington is typically reserved space by those wishing to bury bad news. In the case of Mr. Mueller’s report, bad news is most assuredly in the eye of the beholder.  In a brief interview, Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was circumspect about what comes next. “We are confident the attorney general will make the right decision,” he said. “He has to consider the legal matters and rules. I’m confident he’ll make the right call. He’s a very good lawyer — a fine lawyer. We’re very comfortable with any decision.” Mr. Giuliani said that he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend, in part because Mr. Barr said he may update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings soon. [Maggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next.] Shortly after the report was delivered, Jay Sekulow and Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers, offered a brief statement: “We’re pleased that the Office of Special Counsel has delivered its report to the Attorney General pursuant to the regulations,” they said. “Attorney General Barr will determine the appropriate next steps.” The Mueller investigation was closed without Mr. Trump ever sitting for a formal interview. The president’s lawyers were fearful of what he might say under penalty of perjury, and did not want him to sit for one. They anticipated that Mr. Mueller would not engage in a protracted battle to try to subpoena the president, and Mr. Mueller never did. The investigators did receive written answers to questions. Among those traveling with Mr. Trump to Florida aboard Air Force One on Friday was the new White House counsel, Pat Cipollone. The counsel’s office anticipates reviewing the report for possible issues related to executive privilege. With the delivery of the report looming, in Florida, at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump and his top aides stuck to business as usual: meeting with five Caribbean leaders, placing a phone call to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and, of course, tweeting. But a sense of anxiety loomed, and Mr. Trump’s Twitter posts added to the confusion on a day in which everyone around Mr. Trump was bracing for the end of the Russia investigation and what it might mean for his presidency. A confusing tweet by Mr. Trump at 1:22 p.m. seemed to roll back sanctions on North Korea, undermining his Treasury secretary, although later in the day, officials tried to clarify that Mr. Trump was talking about sanctions that were under consideration but not yet announced. Aides were waiting to see what language Mr. Mueller’s team used in the report about the president’s actions before pushing ahead with a more vocal response. Mr. Trump has said that the report should be made public. But lawmakers are not relying on him.  In a joint statement, the two top Democrats in Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said that “it is imperative for Mr. Barr to make the full report public and provide its underlying documentation and findings to Congress. Attorney General Barr must not give President Trump, his lawyers or his staff any ‘sneak preview’ of Special Counsel Mueller’s findings or evidence, and the White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public.” Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, echoed that sentiment.  “Congress and the American people deserve to judge the facts for themselves,” Mr. Warner said. “The special counsel’s report must be provided to Congress immediately, and the attorney general should swiftly prepare a declassified version of the report for the public. Nothing short of that will suffice.” He pointedly added, “Any attempt by the Trump administration to cover up the results of this investigation into Russia’s attack on our democracy would be unacceptable.” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, stopped short of calling for full disclosure. “I will work with Ranking Member Feinstein and our House Judiciary Committee colleagues to ensure as much transparency as possible, consistent with the law,” he said. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, according to a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec. Justice Department officials notified the White House about 20 minutes before telling lawmakers, Ms. Kupec said.  A security officer from the special counsel’s office delivered the report to the deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, on Friday afternoon, and it was handed off to Mr. Barr within minutes. After top officials looked through the report, Mr. Barr’s chief of staff, Brian Rabbitt, called Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer representing the president in the Russia investigation, just after 4:30 p.m. to let him know that the department had the report. While the White House was not given the report, Mr. Rabbitt gave Mr. Flood a readout of the letter that would be delivered to Congress. The letter included important details, including the fact that Mr. Barr’s summary of Mr. Mueller’s key findings be sent to legislators as early as Sunday evening. It also said that there were no instances when Mr. Rosenstein, the former acting attorney general, Matthew P. Whitaker, or Mr. Barr told Mr. Mueller that he could not pursue an investigative action. The Justice Department said that the investigation was complete and that any department lawyers who were working on Mr. Mueller’s team would return to their positions. A small number of special counsel staff will remain on, to assist in closing the operations of the special counsel’s office. And Mr. Mueller himself will remain the special counsel as loose ends are tied up.   Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding that the special counsel’s finding be made public immediately — and trying to build up their electronic lists of supporters by blasting out email about the report. With no detailed information available about the report, Senators Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Mr. Barr would release it. “Attorney General Barr — release the Mueller report to the American public. Now,” Senator Warren wrote on Twitter. “I am demanding the Mueller report be made immediately available for members of Congress and for the public. Anything short of full transparency will be detrimental to our country moving forward,” Senator Booker tweeted. “Special counsel Mueller’s report should be made public without any delay,” Senator Gillibrand said. She also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: “See you Sunday.” That’s when Ms. Gillibrand is planning to formally kick off her campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York. Senator Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released “immediately,” called on Attorney General Barr to “publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings.” And Senators Harris and Warren emailed supporters to sign their petitions calling for the report’s immediate release. Five additional candidates — Senators Amy Klobuchar and Bernie Sanders; former Representatives Beto O’Rourke and John Delaney; and Julián Castro — also called for the release of the full report. “As Donald Trump said, ‘Let it come out,’” Senator Sanders wrote on Twitter. “I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Mueller’s full report public as soon as possible. No one, including the president, is above the law.” Since the investigation began, Americans have been guessing about what, if anything, Mr. Mueller would uncover. Mr. Trump has used an all-purpose shorthand to describe his view of the inquiry: “witch hunt.”  James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was fired by Mr. Trump for his role in the investigation, in Op-Ed published Thursday in The New York Times, urged the country to look at the inquiry in a different way, beyond partisan politics. “I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism,” he wrote. Throughout Friday, journalists waited anxiously for word of the delivery of the special counsel report to Mr. Barr. Cable news pundits and anchors filled airtime with speculations about whether the report would land on Friday and what it might say.  Then, just after 5 p.m., news came that the report had been delivered — without any hint about what it actually said. A CBS anchor broke into postgame coverage of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament to inform viewers about the report’s arrival. On CNN, Wolf Blitzer read aloud from a printout of the letter that Mr. Barr had sent to members of Congress. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Many Democrats, notably Ms. Pelosi, have played down the prospect of bringing impeachment proceedings against the president.  But several House committees have started investigations into the president’s possible connection to Russia, the role of several members of his family may have played, and a broad menu of other matters, including his personal finances. The Mueller investigation has had many plotlines, crossing oceans and delivering indictments. It can be confusing to keep track of it all. Take a look at this story to help sort it out. Here is what we know so far. Mr. Trump has been trying to lay the predicate for undermining the report. On Wednesday he said of Mr. Mueller, “But it’s sort of interesting that a man, out of the blue, just writes a report.” Mr. Mueller did not randomly or arbitrarily decide to write a report. It is mandated by regulations on the appointment of a special counsel. “At the conclusion of the special counsel’s work, he or she shall provide the attorney general with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the special counsel,” the regulations say. Then, in an interview aired on Fox on Friday, he went on to question the authority of the Justice Department to render a judgment on an elected official. “Well, it’s always interesting to me because a deputy that didn’t get any votes appoints a man that didn’t get any votes — he’s going to write a report on me,” Mr. Trump said. “Comey’s his best friend.” The special counsel role is not an elected office, but the same can be said of the attorney general, deputy attorney general, or hundreds of other top officials serving in the government. Special counsels appointments occur when a potential conflict of interest arises from the executive branch of government investigating itself. Mr. Mueller was appointed by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who was in turn nominated by Mr. Trump. James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, has denied that he is “best friends” with Mr. Mueller, and Mr. Comey’s lawyer has said the two men are friendly colleagues, but “don’t really have a personal relationship.” (Mr. Barr, however, has said that he and Mr. Mueller are personal friends.) The senior prosecutor who led the case against Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, announced Friday that he would leave his job as deputy United States attorney in Manhattan. Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to making hush payments to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. The case, which has the potential to threaten Mr. Trump’s presidency, is separate from the special counsel investigation and will continue. Maggie Astor, Katie Benner, David Enrich, Carl Hulse, Maggie Haberman, Linda Qiu, Michael S. Schmidt and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.  Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc  Eileen Sullivan is the morning breaking news correspondent in Washington. She previously worked for The Associated Press for a decade, covering national security and criminal justice.  @esullivannyt ", "id": "5c95544849f0eacbf105e95b", "date": "2019-03-22T21:30:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Justice Dept. Defends Release of Limited Glimpse of Mueller’s Findings", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Justice Department defended Attorney General William P. Barr’s handling of the special counsel report on Thursday, saying that it had to be scrubbed of sensitive information, amid revelations that some members of the office have said he failed to adequately portray their findings and the extent to which they could damage President Trump. “Given the extraordinary public interest in the matter, the attorney general decided to release the report’s bottom-line findings and his conclusions immediately — without attempting to summarize the report — with the understanding that the report itself would be released after the redaction process,” a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, said in a statement. At issue is a four-page letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on March 24 outlining the main findings of the nearly two-year investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Quoting sparingly from the nearly 400-page report delivered to him two days earlier, the attorney general revealed that Mr. Mueller had declined to decide whether the president illegally obstructed the inquiry and that Mr. Barr himself had stepped in to conclude that Mr. Trump did not commit an obstruction offense. [Some of the Mueller investigators said that the attorney general failed to adequately represent their findings.] Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates in recent days that Mr. Barr could have released more of their own work, government officials and others familiar with their frustrations told The New York Times for an article published on Wednesday. Mr. Trump attacked the article, falsely asserting on Twitter that Times reporters relied on “no legitimate sources,” a longstanding tactic of his to try to dismiss news reports that portray him negatively. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Barr has told lawmakers that his letter was an update of his progress in reviewing the report and that the document was not intended to fulfill a requirement under Justice Department regulations that he send a summary to Congress at the end of any special counsel investigation. Though Ms. Kupec said Mr. Barr was not trying to summarize the report, she was referring only to the regulatory requirement for a summary. Ms. Kupec also said that the report and its release were subject to the regulations, which stipulate that Mr. Mueller prepare a confidential document of his findings intended only for the attorney general. She also said that sensitive information had to be blacked out first, noting that “every page of the ‘confidential report’” was marked with a warning that it may contain secret grand jury testimony. Mr. Barr and other law enforcement officials are also reviewing the document for classified material, information about continuing investigations and derogatory details about third parties not directly related to the inquiry. The attorney general has said he is aiming to send to lawmakers a redacted version of the report by mid-April. Under the regulations, he is free to release parts or all of it if he decides it is in the public interest. The special counsel’s report included summaries of the major findings, and some team members believed Mr. Barr should have included more of their material in his March 24 letter, according to the government officials. But the attorney general “does not believe the report should be released in a ‘serial or piecemeal fashion,’” Ms. Kupec said, citing a letter that Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers on Friday. Justice Department officials have also said they determined that the summaries contained sensitive information that needed to be reviewed before they were released. Democrats have demanded full access to the report. The House Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to let its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, use a subpoena to compel Mr. Barr to turn over a complete copy of the Mueller report and its underlying evidence. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Nadler said on Thursday that the reports about frustration among members of the special counsel team would not alter his plan to give Mr. Barr a bit more time to hand over the report voluntarily before issuing a subpoena. “It is his duty to release the entire report,” Mr. Nadler said of Mr. Barr. “We were demanding he do so and he hasn’t done so.” But given the frustrations expressed by some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators, Mr. Nadler asked Mr. Barr in a letter on Thursday to turn over all communications between the special counsel’s office and other Justice Department officials about the report, including discussions about the disclosure of the report to Congress or the public and about Mr. Barr’s March 24 letter. Mr. Nadler also said that Mr. Barr had undermined his own desire to release the report all at once when he outlined the principal conclusions “in a fashion that appears to minimize the implications of the report as to the president.” And Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on Thursday that he would ask the Senate to pass a resolution calling for the Justice Department to provide transparency on the results of the special counsel’s work. But Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has taken a far different tack. He told reporters on Thursday that he had no interest in “retrying” the Mueller investigation and trusted Mr. Barr to fairly present its findings. “I don’t think Barr misrepresented the Mueller conclusions,” Mr. Graham said. “I don’t have any interest in taking all the work product and re-litigating it. That’s enough for me.” Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5ca64e4649f0eacbf1f80f49", "date": "2019-04-04T18:33:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On ‘S.N.L.,’ Trump, Mueller and Barr Interpret the Final Report Very Differently", "full_text": " While the rest of the nation waits to learn if it will ever get to read the final report of the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and debates whether a recent letter written by Attorney General William P. Barr provided an adequate overview of the two-year investigation and its results, “Saturday Night Live” is here to tell you what it all means. In its opening sketch this weekend, Robert De Niro returned to “S.N.L.” in his recurring role as Mueller, composing his report, which, section by section, was then summarized by Barr (Aidy Bryant), which in turn was distilled into a tweet posted by President Trump. Each performer offered an introduction at the start of the sketch. De Niro said, “Dear Attorney General Barr, officials from the Justice Department and esteemed members of Congress.” Bryant said, “Hey, guys, William Barr here. You might want to sit down for this one.” And Baldwin said, “Guess what? Guess what? Guess what? Daddy is about to freak.” The sketch continued in this round-robin fashion, setting up exchanges like these: De Niro: “I am submitting these 380 pages.” Bryant: “I am writing almost four pages.” Baldwin: “I am reading zero pages, but Sean Hannity has read it and he was so excited that he texted me an eggplant.” De Niro: “On the charge of obstruction of justice, we have not drawn a definitive conclusion.” Bryant: “But I have, and my conclusion is: Trump’s clean as a whistle.” Baldwin: “Free at last, free at last.” De Niro: “As for conspiracy or collusion, there were several questionable incidences involving the president’s team, but we cannot prove a criminal connection.” Bryant: “No collusion, no diggity, no doubt.” Baldwin: [blows an air horn] De Niro: However, we have indicted 34 individuals in connection with this probe” Bryant: “Most of them, very good people.” Baldwin: “The pardons are already in the mail.” De Niro: “In conclusion it is my hope that this report will be made public, with a few redactions.” Bryant: “Hella redactions.” Baldwin: “We’re going to black out everything except the words ‘no’ and ‘collusion.’” “S.N.L.” returned to the subject of the Mueller report in another sketch later in the evening, this time from the perspective of the Russian president Vladimir Putin (Beck Bennett) as he sheepishly acknowledges to his underlings at the Kremlin that Trump is not one of his agents. Pleading his case to the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un (Bowen Yang, an “S.N.L.” staff writer) and an interpreter (played by guest host Sandra Oh), Bennett said, “We don’t know everything in the report yet. Plus, Mueller handed off a lot of stuff to the Southern District of New York. That’s where the real action is.” Interpreting for Yang, Oh replied to him, “Glorious Leader says you sound like Rachel Maddow right now.” At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the fallout from Barr’s letter. JOST: Well, this week made me feel insane. All the people I was told were bad guys all got away with it. Donald Trump, Jussie Smollett and worst of all, Duke. The big story, of course, was that white O.J. was not indicted for collusion. And that Robert Mueller did not reach a conclusion about whether Trump obstructed justice. Or, as it was reported on Fox News, [plays a montage of smiling Fox News personalities, set to Kool & the Gang’s “Celebration”]. I haven’t seen Fox News anchors smile like that since I.C.E. agents pulled into a Home Depot parking lot. So, Trump found out that he’s not getting indicted in the Russia investigation, and I’m sure that he was grateful that it’s all over, and he’s completely ready to move on. [Plays video of Trump saying, “All of the Democrat politicians, they have to be held accountable.”] Wow. It’s like if Scrooge woke up on Christmas morning, discovered he had a second chance at life, then found Tiny Tim and took a crowbar to his good leg. CHE: Man, I can’t believe I actually thought for a second that the F.B.I. was going to lock up the sitting President of the United States, simply because he’s guilty. I think it’s ’cause I’m around white people all the time. And white people have this thing I call toxic optimism. It’s the kind of optimism that makes you believe you can get into college because your mother’s Aunt Becky. I’m sure Aunt Viv’s kids don’t have that much optimism. Black people just aren’t that optimistic. I said the phrase “checks and balances” to a black lady and she rolled her eyes at me for so long, I thought she fell asleep. Cecily Strong returned to the “Weekend Update” desk as the Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, celebrating her return to television after she was rebuked by her own network and temporarily taken off the air after she questioned the loyalty of a Muslim lawmaker. As Strong said, “This Mueller report completely exonerated the president and therefore everybody on the Trump Train. So somebody at Fox News said my name into a bathroom mirror three times and here I am.” She went on to thank her “superfans,” describing them as “mean, horny men laying in hospital beds and white prison gangs who control the remote on Saturday.” When Jost told her she didn’t have to shout, Strong replied, “Mama’s got one volume and it’s three Chardonnays deep at a crowded party.” It seemed inevitable that this week’s “S.N.L.” would have a sendup of “Us,” the hit horror movie written and directed by Jordan Peele. But it did so in a surprisingly clever fashion: This filmed commercial seemed to be a parody of a Discover credit card campaign, with a woman (Ego Nwodim) informing her spouse (Kenan Thompson) that some weird charges have recently turned up on their bill and she’s calling the company. “With Discover Card, you get to talk to a real person who’s just like you,” she says cheerfully. But the operator she reaches is her doppelgänger (also played by Nwodim) — an estimable recreation of the evil duplicate played by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.” Nwodim tells the operator that someone used her credit card to buy a bunch of red jumpsuits, motorcycle gloves, hundreds of rabbits and giant scissors. In a halting voice, the evil doppelgänger replies, “When you go on vacation … I sit in … a cave.” Only a few days after prosecutors made the controversial decision to drop all charges against Jussie Smollett, the “Empire” co-star who had been accused of staging a hate crime, “S.N.L.” presented a sketch about the actor that nonetheless made no mention of these recent developments. In the sketch, Chris Redd plays Smollett, arriving late to a meeting with his manager (Sandra Oh), the “Empire” co-creator Lee Daniels (Kenan Thompson) and other executives (Kate McKinnon, Ego Nwodim and Mikey Day) who are trying to have him fired from the show. But Redd insists he has recently been the victim of another mysterious crime. Reaching into a bag, he says, “Look, guys! The killer — he left me a bunch of clues!” McKinnon asks, “What killer?” Day adds, “You’re still alive, Jussie.” You decide if the sketch was too soon or too little, too late.", "id": "5ca062d649f0eacbf1d99e70", "date": "2019-03-31T06:47:24+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Top U.S. Senate Democrat Says Barr Should Retract Spying Statement", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer called on Attorney General William Barr on Wednesday to retract his statement that U.S. agencies spied on President Donald Trump's presidential campaign. \"AG Barr admitted he had no evidence to support his claim that spying on the Trump campaign “did occur,'\" Schumer said in a Twitter post. \"AG Barr must retract his statement immediately or produce specific evidence to back it up. Perpetuating conspiracy theories is beneath the office of the Attorney General.\"  (Reporting by Doina Chiacu and Eric Beech; Editing by Peter Cooney)", "id": "5cae7d2e49f0eacbf1f82835", "date": "2019-04-10T23:31:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In Second Stint as U.S. Attorney General, Barr Faces Toughest Call on Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — On Aug. 29, 1991, William Barr had a decision to make.  Cuban inmates had seized hostages inside an Alabama prison in a bid to avoid deportation, and now they were threatening to kill them. Only 19 days into his job as acting attorney general, Barr ordered the FBI to mount a rescue mission. Before dawn broke the next day, the hostages were freed and the prisoners subdued. Barr's gamble had paid off. Three months later, he was confirmed unanimously by the Senate to serve as nation's youngest attorney general, the top U.S. law enforcement official. Barr, now 68, is \"not afraid to make decisions that fall into his areas of responsibility,\" said George Terwilliger, who served as Barr's deputy during his first stint as attorney general under President George H.W. Bush. Barr is back atop the Justice Department, appointed by Donald Trump after the Republican president fired Jeff Sessions as attorney general in November. Barr is facing a different type of high-pressure situation as he determines how much of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russia's role in the 2016 election and contacts between Moscow and Trump's campaign should be made public. Department regulations give Barr broad authority to decide what to disclose and what to withhold. So far, all Barr has released since Mueller submitted the nearly 400-page report on March 22 is a four-page letter, made public two days later, describing the special counsel's main conclusions.  Barr wrote that Mueller had not concluded that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. Barr also said he personally decided after reviewing the report that Mueller did not find enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice. That assessment has drawn sharp criticism from Democrats. In addition, some members of Mueller's team are spreading the word that they are unhappy with the way Barr characterized their work, according to media reports. The public is likely to get a greater look at the factors behind Barr's decision to clear Trump of obstruction of justice - Mueller had not exonerated Trump - and other investigative details when the attorney general releases a redacted version of the report, which he has promised by mid-April.  For some, that will be too late, considering that all the public knows about the findings in a 22-month inquiry that cast a cloud over Trump's presidency is the little that Barr has already disclosed. \"It is like fundamentally rigging the game before we know what the actual score is,\" said Harvard Law School professor Laurence Tribe, who worked with Barr on a telecommunications case in the 1990s. \"His integrity, his history, his reputation is shattered by what he has done. I have no idea what could have motivated him.\"  'AN IMPRESSIVE EFFORT' Others have said Barr made the right decision on the obstruction question, noting that it is difficult to prove that Trump committed criminal obstruction if Mueller did not find that he destroyed evidence or directly interfered with the investigation - even though he assailed the inquiry as a \"witch hunt\" and called the investigators partisan zealots. \"Trump made an impressive effort at creating an obstruction case against himself, but it's no easy task to obstruct an investigation where prosecutors do not believe there's an underlying crime,\" George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley said. Parts of the report are expected to be blacked out to protect information deemed sensitive. Barr, with Mueller's assistance, has spent weeks redacting material that might compromise ongoing investigations or intelligence-gathering sources and methods. Barr has said he is also removing material from grand-jury proceedings that by law can be made public only through a court order. Barr also may opt to redact portions that discuss people who were investigated but not charged such as Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. That would fit with longstanding Justice Department policy, but could draw criticism from Democrats who have said the public should know as much as possible about Trump campaign contacts with Russia during and after the 2016 election. Trump has said he will not use a legal doctrine called executive privilege, which allows a president to withhold information about internal executive branch deliberations from other branches of government, to block portions of the report. Barr has said he does not plan to submit the report to the White House for review.  \"Bill Barr is going to call it like he sees it,\" said Wayne Budd, who served as the Justice Department's third-ranking official during Barr's first stint as attorney general. \"I think he understands the role of the attorney general is not as a lawyer for the president,\" Budd added, \"but as a lawyer for the people of the United States.\"  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan and Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham)", "id": "5cac818549f0eacbf1f81cfd", "date": "2019-04-09T11:25:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Divided Senate Committee Advances William Barr Nomination", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — A polarized Senate Judiciary Committee advanced the nomination of William P. Barr to be President Trump’s second confirmed attorney general on Thursday, as Republicans and Democrats split over his views on executive authority and the special counsel’s ongoing Russia investigation. Mr. Barr will now go before the full Republican-controlled Senate, where he is expected to be confirmed and sworn into office as soon as next week. If confirmed, he would promptly assume responsibility for the special counsel investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III into possible ties between Mr. Trump, his associates and Russia, and whether the president obstructed justice. Mr. Barr will get at least one Democratic vote in the full Senate. Senator Doug Jones, Democrat of Alabama, announced his support on Thursday. But the committee’s debate and subsequent 12-10 party-line vote to effectively endorse Mr. Barr to the full Senate revealed how fraught the politics around the Justice Department have become after two years of unrelenting attacks by Mr. Trump. Even so, many Democrats are privately eager for Mr. Barr to be confirmed, believing that he would be a vast improvement over Matthew G. Whitaker, the current acting attorney general who is relatively inexperienced and fiercely loyal to Mr. Trump. Mr. Whitaker was scheduled to testify on Friday before the House Judiciary Committee, but on Thursday, he said he will not appear before Congress unless the committee assures him he will not be subpoenaed. The House committee voted along party lines on Wednesday to prepare just such a subpoena in case Mr. Whitaker backed out. Mr. Barr, who previously served as attorney general in the 1990s, presented himself in his confirmation hearing last month as a set of steady hands who would guard the department’s independence. He said he would permit Mr. Mueller to finish his work, and he pledged to allow as much transparency as possible around the investigation’s findings. Republicans signaled that they were broadly satisfied with Mr. Barr’s word, and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the committee’s chairman, opened the hearing by saying that “the time has come for new leadership at the department.” But Democrats, at least those on the committee, remain deeply mistrustful that Mr. Barr’s public statements left him a dangerous amount of discretion to curtail the investigation or suppress its findings if so ordered. They did not question his qualifications. “This is not the time to install an attorney general who has repeatedly espoused a view of unfettered executive power,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, summarizing the heart of her party’s objections. If confirmed, Mr. Barr, 68, would join only a handful of Americans to return to the same high-level government post in which they already served. Under President George H.W. Bush, he served as the head of the department’s Office of Legal Counsel, then as deputy attorney general and ultimately attorney general from 1991 to 1993. He enjoyed bipartisan support during his earlier tenure, but advanced an unusually expansive view of executive powers that, reconsidered in light of Mr. Trump’s unorthodox presidency, has fueled Democrats concerns about Mr. Barr’s independence from the current president. A 2018 memorandum drafted by Mr. Barr in which he strongly criticized one of Mr. Mueller’s main lines of inquiry — whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice — became the focus of Democratic concerns. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the panel’s top Democrat, called it “disqualifying.” Mr. Barr downplayed his views in a confirmation hearing last month, telling senators he would refuse any order from the president to fire Mr. Mueller without good cause. “I am in a position in life where I can provide the leadership necessary to protect the independence and reputation of the department,” he said. Mr. Barr said that he expected the attorney general would receive Mr. Mueller’s findings, likely in the form of a report, and then produce his own report to Congress based on the material. If he was that attorney general, he said he would strive for transparency, though would not guarantee he would share the findings in full. Republicans and Democrats continued to debate the efficacy of those pledges on Thursday, largely ignoring the nominee’s views on policy matters unrelated to the Russia investigation. “I have to say that former attorney general Barr’s toplines on this issue were terrific,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island. “But once you got down below the towline, once you got into the weeds,” his views suggest he would be willing to suppress Mr. Mueller’s findings if ordered to do so by the White House. Mr. Graham retorted that Mr. Barr had promised him “he would not allow executive privilege to be used as a reason to cover up wrongdoing.” “I will hold him that,” he added. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.", "id": "5c5c90573a125f5075c0889d", "date": "2019-02-07T17:51:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Nadler Says Congress Will Not Get Mueller Report Until After Barr News Conference", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said on Wednesday he has been told by the Justice Department that Congress will not receive Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report until after Attorney General William Barr's 9:30 a.m. EDT news conference on Thursday. \"DOJ is informing us we will not receive the report until around 11/12 tomorrow afternoon — AFTER Barr’s press conference. This is wrong,\" Nadler said in a tweet.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)", "id": "5cb7aa3e49f0eacbf1f8522d", "date": "2019-04-17T22:34:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Barr to Look Into F.B.I. ‘Spying’ on Trump Campaign", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that he would scrutinize the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation, asserting that American intelligence agencies had spied on the Trump campaign. His remarks are certain to please President Trump, who has alleged that his campaign was targeted out of political malice. •  Mr. Barr also said that after releasing a partly blacked-out copy of the special counsel’s report, he would work to share some of the more sensitive redacted information with Congress. • As a married gay man and a Scripture-quoting Christian, the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg has challenged the religious right on its own turf, confronting evangelicals over gay rights and questioning the moral authority of those who have stayed silent on Mr. Trump’s conduct. • In an appearance in San Antonio, Mr. Trump laid out what is likely to be a key issue in his re-election campaign, saying migrants pouring across the border with Mexico were dying in great numbers while gang members from Central America threatened American ranchers. And he made clear that he would try to put the blame on Democrats. • For years, both political parties have tried — and failed — to overhaul the nation’s immigration laws, mindful that someday the government would reach a breaking point. That moment has arrived. • Senator Bernie Sanders reintroduced his Medicare for All Act on Wednesday, the latest example of how he has used his Senate standing to bolster his presidential platform. • How much would a plan like Mr. Sanders’s cost? The Times asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a variety of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a system. • Federal Reserve officials were worried about slowing economic growth abroad when they decided to pause interest rate increases and cut economic growth forecasts for 2019, according to minutes from the March meeting released on Wednesday. • The Treasury Department said it would not immediately comply with a congressional request to hand over President Trump’s tax returns, setting up a protracted legal battle. • Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million in the first quarter of the year. That fell short of what several other Democratic presidential candidates received, but she had a strong finish. • Mr. Pence urged the United Nations to revoke the credentials of Venezuela’s ambassador to the world body, portraying him as a loyalist to  a government that has allowed crime, violence and starvation to rise. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left open the possibility of entering a conflict with Iran without first seeking explicit congressional approval, telling senators “there is no doubt there is a connection” between Al Qaeda and Iran. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5caed6b749f0eacbf1f82949", "date": "2019-04-11T05:53:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Investigators for Mueller Say Barr Underplayed Report", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Some of Robert S. Mueller III’s investigators believe Attorney General William P. Barr failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry, which they say were more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr indicated. They’re worried that Americans’ views will have hardened before the investigation’s conclusions become public. • The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of Mr. Trump’s tax returns, likely starting a momentous court fight. • A nonbinding resolution approved by the House calls for the Trump administration to drop its support for a court ruling that declared the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional. • Senate Republicans used the so-called nuclear option to unilaterally change years-old rules of the chamber with a simple-majority vote. They did it to speed up the confirmation of Trump nominees. • A coalition of states and advocacy organizations sued the Trump administration over the rollback of Obama-era nutritional standards for school meals. • The arrest of a Chinese woman who brought a malware-laced device into Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago golf club in Florida has exposed the challenge of protecting a president who spends much of his time at a busy resort. • On Election Day in 2016, the Republican Party was split over its nominee for president. Not anymore: In every state important to the 2020 race, Mr. Trump’s allies are in firm control of the Republican electoral machinery. • Joe Biden, trying to stem the damage from complaints about unwanted touching as he considers a presidential run, said in a video that he realized that “social norms have begun to change.” • Beto O’Rourke’s 2020 campaign raised $9.4 million in 18 days. The total is smaller than those of Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris, but Mr. O’Rourke only joined the presidential race in mid-March. • In a rare speech to a joint session of Congress, Jens Stoltenberg, the secretary general of NATO, stressed the importance of the military alliance and the need to stand up to Russia. • The Trump administration is preparing an economic relief package for Venezuela in the event that the Maduro government falls. The legislation would provide $200 million in aid for Venezuela and $200 million for neighboring countries taking in Venezuelan refugees. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca5982549f0eacbf1f80c5d", "date": "2019-04-04T05:36:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr, Michael Avenatti, Apple: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re continuing to cover the fallout from the special counsel’s report, a congestion pricing plan for New York City drivers and a new effort by the British Parliament to figure out a Brexit plan. Mr. Trump and his Republican allies vowed on Monday to pursue and even punish those responsible for the special counsel’s Russia investigation now that it has ended without implicating him or his campaign. The president denounced “treasonous” people who should be investigated themselves, and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee suggested a separate inquiry into potential anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. The attorney general: William Barr’s decision to declare that Mr. Trump had not committed a crime — despite the fact that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, stopped short of exonerating the president — has renewed a debate about the role of American law enforcement in politically charged investigations. The special counsel: Now that his report has been filed, Mr. Mueller is poised to return to civilian life as a figure of mystery and fascination. The news media: Journalists faced bipartisan criticism after the special counsel found that the Trump campaign had not conspired with Russia. Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, said. “We wrote a lot about Russia, and I have no regrets. It’s not our job to determine whether or not there was illegality.” The Daily: In today’s episode, a reporter discusses Mr. Barr’s determination that Mr. Trump had not illegally obstructed justice.  A plan to install electronic tolls for vehicles entering the busiest stretches of Manhattan would make the city the first in the U.S. to use congestion pricing. State lawmakers agreed on Monday that the plan was necessary to help pay for much-needed repairs to the subway system. Congestion pricing has helped unclog streets in places like London, Singapore and Stockholm, although the plans have been criticized as an unfair tax. What’s next: Many specifics, including the exact price for entering Manhattan’s main business district, are still being considered. The leader of the State Assembly seemed confident on Monday that a deal could be reached before a budget deadline on April 1. For decades, the Sackler family has generously supported museums around the world, as well as medical and educational institutions including Columbia and Oxford. But some beneficiaries are reconsidering their relationship with the family because of its ties to Purdue Pharma, the maker of the frequently abused painkiller OxyContin. More than 200,000 people in the U.S. have died from overdoses involving OxyContin and other prescription opioids in the past two decades. Background: The scrutiny of the Sacklers is part of a broader reckoning in the museum world about who sits on boards and bankrolls programs. The Southern Poverty Law Center is one of the nation’s wealthiest and best-known legal advocacy groups. Last year, it identified over 1,000 hate groups across the U.S. The center is now in an uproar. Its founder, Morris Dees, above, has been fired, and other top executives have quit as staff members raise accusations of sexual harassment and racial discrimination.  Parliament takes control: British lawmakers on Monday passed an amendment giving themselves the power to vote on alternatives to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for exiting the European Union. Britain will remain in the bloc until at least April 12, although what happens after that is currently anyone’s guess. Boeing tests: During recent simulations of a doomed Indonesian flight involving a 737 Max plane, pilots discovered that they had less than 40 seconds to override an automated system. Trump-Netanyahu meeting: President Trump formally recognized Israel’s authority over the long-disputed Golan Heights as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the White House on Monday. Vote to override veto: The House will try today to override President Trump’s veto of its resolution to block his national emergency declaration. On Monday, Patrick Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the transfer of up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of a wall on the border with Mexico. Michael Avenatti arrest: Federal prosecutors have accused the lawyer best known for representing the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels of attempting to extort millions of dollars from Nike. Apple’s new offerings:  The iPhone maker has announced monthly subscription services for TV programming, video games and news, as well as a credit card.   Snapshot: Above, a “super bloom” of wildflowers near Hemet, Calif. The flowers in the hills near Los Angeles have blossomed after heavy winter rains, attracting droves of smartphone-equipped fans.  Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert offered a concession: “Fair is fair. Barr says Mueller says there was no collusion between Trump and Russia,” he said. “So we have to cross collusion off the list of reasons Trump is unfit to be president.” What we’re listening to: This episode of Radiolab, exploring the greatest mysteries in listeners’ lives. There’s a moment when a reporter asks if there is any correlation between a common subway noise and “West Side Story,” writes Remy Tumin, a member of the briefings team. “I think it will bring a smile to your face as it did mine.” Cook: You probably know French onion soup, but what about French onion grilled cheese? Listen: The rapper Silvana Imam rails against Sweden’s racism and sexism in her music, and many see her success as a reflection of her country’s polarized political climate. Watch: “The Act” on Hulu is a disturbing TV mini-series in which a woman discovers that her lifelong debilitating illnesses are fabrications of her mother. We spoke with the show’s creator, who in 2016 wrote a news account about the case. Go: The Andy Warhol exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York closes on Sunday. Our critic explains why you shouldn’t miss it. Smarter Living: Scientists have begun to determine how we can be more intentional about forgetting, and it’s not just about suppression. Memory depends on a biochemical process that rebuilds the recalled scene, and that retrieval makes the recollection temporarily vulnerable to incremental revisions — say, refocusing less on the painful part and more on assistance or resilience afterward. Love your hotel room? Some offer a test drive for amenities you can purchase. Today is the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Egypt-Israeli peace treaty, a direct offshoot of the 1978 Camp David accords. The landmark accords were hashed out in tense talks at Camp David, the rustic presidential retreat in the Catoctin Mountains of Maryland. President Jimmy Carter carried messages and proposals between the cabin of Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and that of President Anwar Sadat of Egypt. The retreat as a vacation spot captured the affection of President Franklin Roosevelt, but not of all his successors. Barack Obama preferred Hawaii or Martha’s Vineyard, Mass. President Trump goes to his clubs in Palm Beach, Fla., and Bedminster, N.J., rather than Camp David. “It’s nice. You’d like it,” Mr. Trump once said of Camp David, adding, “You know how long you’d like it? For about 30 minutes.” The Navy maintains Camp David as an active military base, ready for any president who makes the 30-minute helicopter ride from the White House. A recent Back Story mentioned that NASA was planning its first all-female spacewalk this month. The agency announced on Monday that the milestone had been canceled. The reason? There weren’t enough spacesuits in the right size.  That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Mark Landler, a White House correspondent who has visited Camp David, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the special counsel’s report.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: 24-hour source of 20s (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Fifty-two years ago today, a countercultural “Be In” in Central Park spread a message of love and tolerance. The Times described it at the time as “noisy, swarming, chaotic and utterly surrealistic.” An earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to the number of deaths from opioid overdoses in the U.S. over the past two decades. More than 200,000 people have died from overdoses of prescription opioids, but nearly 400,000 have died from opioid overdoses overall, including heroin, fentanyl and prescription drugs. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5c99f13b49f0eacbf105f0e5", "date": "2019-03-26T09:29:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Some in Mueller's Team See Report as More Damaging to Trump Than Barr Summary: NY Times", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Some of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigators have told associates that the findings of their probe are more damaging for President Donald Trump than Attorney General William Barr indicated in his four-page summary, the New York Times reported on Wednesday. Citing government officials and others familiar with the situation, the Times said some members of Mueller's team believe Barr should have included more of their material in the summary he released on March 24 of the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign.  The Times said the officials and other sources declined to flesh out why some of the special counsel's investigators viewed their findings as potentially more damaging for the president than Barr explained. It was also not clear how widespread among Mueller's team, which included dozens of lawyers and investigators, are concerns about differences between Barr's summary and Mueller's report, the Times said. Peter Carr, a spokesman for Mueller, declined to comment. The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Barr, a Trump appointee, said in the summary that Mueller did not establish that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia during the election. Barr also said the special counsel did not exonerate Trump on obstruction of justice. Barr himself subsequently concluded that Mueller's inquiry had not found sufficient evidence to warrant criminal obstruction charges against Trump. Trump and the White House have hailed the conclusions as a victory for the president, who has denied conspiring with Russians or obstructing justice. The attorney general has pledged to release the nearly 400-page report by mid-April with certain portions blacked out for reasons such as protecting secret grand jury information and intelligence-gathering sources and methods. The Democratic-led House of Representatives Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to enable its chairman, Jerrold Nadler, to subpoena the Justice Department to obtain Mueller's unredacted report and all underlying evidence as well as documents and testimony from five former Trump aides, including political strategist Steve Bannon.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; additional reporting by Karen Freifeld and Mohammad Zargham; Editing by Leslie Adler)", "id": "5ca552c449f0eacbf1f80beb", "date": "2019-04-04T00:40:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Clears Key Hurdle for Confirmation as Attorney General", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — William P. Barr on Tuesday cleared a crucial hurdle for his nomination as attorney general, virtually assuring his confirmation this week to take over the Justice Department — and oversee the investigation into links between the Trump campaign and Russia’s election-manipulation operations. The Senate voted largely along party lines, 55 to 44, to limit debate on Mr. Barr’s nomination and move to a final up-or-down vote, likely on Thursday. It signals that he has enough support in the Republican-controlled chamber to prevail. “When it comes to Bill Barr, I can only tell my Democratic colleagues, there is nobody better I know to recommend to you,” said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the Republican chairman of the Judiciary Committee, ticking through Mr. Barr’s record on the Senate floor shortly after the vote. A handful of senators broke ranks, however. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian-leaning Republican who had expressed concerns about Mr. Barr’s sweeping view of executive power, voted against him. But Senators Doug Jones of Alabama, Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, Democrats who represent conservative or swing states, voted for him. The fight over Mr. Barr’s nomination has centered on demands by Democrats that he pledge to make public any final report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, describing the findings of his investigation, which is believed to be nearing an end. Mr. Barr pledged to be as transparent as possible, but he also said that he could not make any commitments, both because such a report might contain some information that must remain secret, such as grand-jury testimony, and because he did not know what Mr. Mueller might produce. In defending that stance, Mr. Barr promised to obey Justice Department regulations for special counsel investigations, created by the Clinton administration in 1999 after the independent counsel at the time, Ken Starr, produced a lengthy and salacious report about President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky. Those rules do not envision a lengthy report going directly from the investigator to Congress and the public. Rather, they envision a report to the attorney general, who then sends a separate notification to Congress explaining that the investigation has ended. Republicans said they trusted Mr. Barr to keep his word and protect the investigation. “I can promise you this, Mr. Barr will make sure Mr. Mueller can finish his job without political interference,” Mr. Graham said. “He said that. I believe that. And that’s how this movie has to end.” Democrats at Mr. Barr’s confirmation hearing were not satisfied with his evasions, though, and the Senate Judiciary Committee vote to send his nomination to the floor last week fell along partisan lines. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has also criticized Mr. Barr’s stance about the same issue, contributing to Democrats’ show of opposition to his confirmation in the cloture vote. “He is another person who is going to be very loyal to the president,” Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii and a member of the Judiciary Committee who voted no, said in an interview. “He is a supporter of what is known as a unitary president, which is a president with a lot of powers, and we hardly need to give this president more powers than he already thinks he has.” Nevertheless, Mr. Barr is virtually certain to be confirmed. That would bring him back for a rare second stint in the same cabinet-level position that he held in a previous era. Mr. Barr served as attorney general from 1991 to 1993, under President George Bush, before spending the last quarter-century as a corporate lawyer — much of it with the telecommunications company that became Verizon. It would also end a turbulent chapter in the history of the Justice Department that traces back to the decision by Mr. Trump’s first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, to recuse himself from overseeing the Russia investigation, leaving the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, as acting head of the department for the purpose of that investigation. Mr. Rosenstein appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel and protected the investigation from interference, even as Mr. Trump raged at the Justice Department and repeatedly lashed out at Mr. Sessions for what he viewed as a betrayal. That tension reached a crescendo in November, the day after Democrats’ victories in the 2018 midterm election, when Mr. Trump ousted Mr. Sessions. Breaking with the normal order of succession for the Justice Department, Mr. Trump then installed as acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a White House loyalist with ties to a company that had been shut down for fraud. Democrats were deeply suspicious of Mr. Whitaker, who had openly denigrated the Mueller investigation and unsuccessfully interviewed in 2017 for the job of the chief White House lawyer charged with defending against it. Many saw his appointment as illegitimate. Their criticism surged when Mr. Whitaker rejected the advice of career department ethics lawyers that he, too, recuse himself from overseeing the Russia investigation. At a House Judiciary Committee hearing last week, Mr. Whitaker testified that he had told Mr. Trump’s circle none of the information he received in briefings, and said he had taken no steps to interfere with Mr. Mueller’s work. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump nominated Mr. Barr, who was known during the first Bush administration for his unusually strong interpretation of the presidency’s executive powers. That choice also attracted intense scrutiny. Among other things, Mr. Barr had publicly declared in 2017 that he saw more reason to investigate Hillary Clinton over a conservative conspiracy theory involving a uranium deal the Obama administration had approved while she was secretary of state than to investigate any collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. It also emerged that in June 2018, he had taken it upon himself to write a lengthy legal memo for the Trump administration, which he also shared with Mr. Trump’s outside legal team, arguing that Mr. Trump wielded unchecked power to “start or stop a law enforcement proceeding” and so Mr. Mueller should therefore not be permitted to investigate whether Mr. Trump committed obstruction of justice for pressuring the former F.B.I. director, James B. Comey Jr., to drop an investigation into a top aide. But at his confirmation hearing in January, Mr. Barr walked back or qualified some of his early writings on executive power, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Department’s independence and legal limits on the presidency. And he vowed to let Mr. Mueller finish his work, saying he would resist any effort to fire him without good cause. Follow Nicholas Fandos and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @npfandos and @charlie_savage.   ", "id": "5c6347653a125f5075c0959d", "date": "2019-02-12T22:23:32+0000"}]