[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate-Change Funds Try to Profit From a Warming World", "full_text": " ` For investors, the risks of climate change are already raging, with intense storms and wildfires leading to property damage and business disruption. California’s deadly fires last year resulted in losses of tens of billions of dollars — and may have contributed to the January bankruptcy of Pacific Gas and Electric, the electric utility. “The risk of catastrophic fire has increased in California, and the reason is climate change,” said Julie K. Gorte, senior vice president for sustainable investing at Pax World Funds. But the investment opportunities, beyond renewable energy, have received less attention. Nonetheless, a few mutual funds have made it their mission to invest in companies that can help mitigate greenhouse gas emissions or aid adaptation to a warmer world. They’re stepping beyond what have been the main investment responses to climate change — betting narrowly on green energy, like wind and solar power, or avoiding the worst polluters, like oil and coal companies, in low-carbon mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. “More and more clients, individuals and institutions, are asking for funds that address climate change and climate risk,” said Leslie Samuelrich, president of Green Century Capital Management in Boston. “Because of that, asset managers are starting to develop portfolios to meet that demand.” The Hartford Environmental Opportunities Fund is one such fund. It’s not just “about the weather,” said Alan T. Hsu, portfolio manager. “It’s about technology and assets being created today to address climate-related risks that are visible already.” The fund, with a net expense ratio of 0.89 percent, returned an annual average of 6.51 percent over the three years through March. More than half the fund’s assets are invested in companies involved in low-carbon electricity and energy efficiency, such as Iberdrola, a Spanish utility that relies on wind power. But holdings also include water and agriculture stocks, such as Deere & Company, the farm-equipment maker. “In a world with a more adverse climate, a lot of arable land will become much less productive at the same time as population increases the demand on that land,” Mr. Hsu said. Outfits that can help farmers increase fertility stand to benefit. Mr. Hsu works for Wellington Management in Boston. Hartford Funds hired Wellington to run the fund, which opened in 2016. Mr. Hsu said Wellington created the strategy a decade ago for its institutional investor clients, like pension funds, because it expected the federal government to begin regulating carbon emissions in the United States. That didn’t happen, but regulation has surged in states, cities and other countries. “Since 1997, the year of the Kyoto climate protocol, the number of climate laws and policies in the world has basically doubled every five years. There were more than 1,200 by early 2017,” Mr. Hsu said. Those rules present legal-liability risk and the possibility of higher costs for companies, he said. The Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement to limit greenhouse-gas emissions. In stewarding the Hartford fund, Mr. Hsu can draw on insights from a research partnership that Wellington created last year with the Woods Hole Research Center, a nonprofit climate specialist in Falmouth, Mass. The two are merging market know-how and climate science to identify metrics that matter for investing. Wellington, which manages funds for other companies, including Vanguard, says the partnership’s findings will inform all the portfolios it runs, not just the Hartford fund. Jon F. Hale, global head of sustainability research for Morningstar, said he wasn’t aware of another pairing like that between Wellington and Woods Hole — plenty of money managers have begun to talk about climate change, but none have so publicly allied themselves with an independent scientific expert. Mr. Hale predicted that other big investment companies would find themselves at a disadvantage if they didn’t seek comparable means of assessing the investment implications of a warmer world. “They have to figure out the extent to which climate change poses a direct and immediate risk to their portfolios,” he said. An early line of inquiry in the Wellington-Woods Hole partnership is how higher temperatures may induce population migration, said Philip B. Duffy, Woods Hole’s president and executive director. “Of all of the different hazards, drought seems to be one that’s particularly powerful in inducing migration,” he said. “If there’s not water, you can’t live somewhere.” The financial implications of that could play out in surprising ways, said Christopher J. Goolgasian, Wellington’s director of climate research. Movable assets might become more valuable than stationary ones. “You might think about cruise ships over theme parks and farm equipment over farms,” he said. Or you might consider investing in nontraditional sorts of farms — which is why aquaculture is one of the themes of the GMO Climate Change Fund. Its manager, Lucas White, includes in the fund less obvious industries, like fish farming and copper mining, alongside obvious ones, like clean energy and energy efficiency. Mr. White’s fund caters to institutional investors like pension funds and has returned an annual average of 8.54 percent since its April 2017 inception through February 2018, the latest information available from the fund. “If you think agricultural productivity will be challenged, people will need to get their protein from somewhere,” he said. “Cattle is a disaster for climate change, but salmon is very carbon efficient.” Cows produce methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and tropical forests, which absorb carbon dioxide, are often razed for ranching. Mr. White’s allocation to copper stocks is a sideways play on renewable energy. Some environmentally minded investors avoid miners, because of the pollution and political controversies that can accompany their operations. Mr. White, in contrast, bets big, allocating about 10 percent of his fund to copper diggers, including Freeport-McMoRan. “We need an immense amount of copper to respond to climate change,” he said. The metal is required for wind and solar projects, as well as electric-vehicle-charging networks. Not every manager in this niche views renewable energy as a crucial play. The Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund mostly avoids the sector. Instead, it holds big slugs of agriculture and water stocks; together, those total more than 40 percent of its assets. That’s partly because the fund’s mandate is broader than just responding to global warming, said co-manager Hubert T. Aarts. “Some of what we hold is purely climate related, but the portfolio is not only that,” he said. The fund also buys companies that help deliver cleaner water and air and dispose of waste. “You want to breathe fresh air even without climate change,” he said. The fund, with a net expense ratio of 0.98 percent, returned an annual average of 10.36 percent over the three years through March. Few mutual funds explicitly make climate change the core of their mandate, Mr. Hale of Morningstar said. But investors can find offerings with an ecological bent among those that more broadly incorporate environmental, social and governance factors into their stock picking, he said. An example is Brown Advisory’s Sustainable Growth Fund. As the name suggests, the fund invests in companies its managers judge as having sustainable business practices and good long-term growth prospects. That makes climate change part of the calculus, said co-manager Karina Funk. “If you want your company to thrive over the next 20 years, you absolutely need to be thinking about climate change,” she said. Ms. Funk said she and her co-manager, David B. Powell, investigate companies’ sustainability records because the best-run companies have forward-looking environmental practices, in addition to solid fundamentals. As an example, she offered up one of her fund’s largest holdings, J. B. Hunt Transport Services, the freight company. “They have a high carbon footprint, and yet they’re way less carbon intensive than their peers,” she said. “They use trains for a lot of the shipping journey, and that can be up to 50 percent more fuel efficient than over-the-road trucking.” Ms. Funk’s fund, with an expense ratio of 0.88 percent, returned an annual average of 18.84 percent over the three years through March. Active fund managers may have an advantage in this niche, compared with index funds and E.T.F.s. They may be able to identify and exploit the new risks and opportunities presented by a warming world and wilder weather, said Matthew C. Brancato, a principal at Vanguard. Assessing environmental performance from an investment perspective is a relatively new endeavor, so there aren’t standard approaches or measures, he said. That can create an opening for research to yield valuable insights. On top of that, active managers are more likely to ask companies to improve their environmental practices, he said. (There is at least one index offering with a climate focus, the ETHO Climate Leadership U.S. E.T.F.) Whether one chooses an active or passively managed fund, costs matter in this niche, as in any other, Mr. Brancato said. Even if an actively managed fund outperforms competitors, high costs can erase its advantage. Another consideration is how much of a portfolio to dedicate to a specialized fund. Michelle E. Brownstein, vice president of private client services at Personal Capital in San Francisco, said she wouldn’t recommend that someone put more than 10 percent of their total investments into such a fund. Her recommendation assumes that person has a well-diversified portfolio and that the fund chosen is low cost, she said. “Socially responsible funds tend to be a little more expensive than other strategies, and they shouldn’t be.” For some investors, climate change isn’t just a money problem but also a moral one; these folks want their money to help the transition to a greener economy. Investment companies are aware of that and increasingly offer funds and E.T.F.s that let shareholders express their values in this way. Dimensional Fund Advisors offered its first two sustainable funds more than a decade ago. They aim to buy the best environmental performers in each economic sector, said Gerard K. O’Reilly, the company’s co-chief executive and chief investment officer. Mr. O’Reilly said he’s not convinced a sustainable strategy can outperform the broader market. “Investors can account for firms’ social and sustainable practices without meaningfully changing the expected return of their portfolios,” he said. Dimensional’s funds have kept pace with their benchmark indexes. Its U.S. Sustainability Core 1 Portfolio, with an expense ratio of 0.25 percent, returned an annual average of 13.18 percent for the three years through March, compared with 13.48 percent for the Russell 3000 index. He added that he saw nothing wrong with investing with the hope of achieving good returns while helping along the climate transition. “Customers have the right to express their preferences around what kind of investments they want to make. Will that action help get companies to pay more attention to sustainability? Well, every little bit helps.”", "id": "5cb07e1f49f0eacbf1f83512", "date": "2019-04-12T12:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change: Debating the Best Fix", "full_text": " letters Some readers agree with Steven Rattner’s alternative to the Green New Deal, while others felt that it didn’t go far enough to avert a global catastrophe. To the Editor: Re “A Pragmatic Fix for the Climate Crisis,” by Steven Rattner (Op-Ed, March 21): Schemes like Mr. Rattner’s are a knife in the heart to saving the earth from climate change. Under the guise of political and economic practicality, they set us up for failure. The indisputable fact is that we must fully meet the goals determined by climate experts if the planet is to be kept from crossing the tipping point where global warming spirals out of control. The Green New Deal goals that Mr. Rattner calls “ludicrous” are the bare minimum to that end. He says “a hefty carbon tax would go a long way toward winning the war” against climate change. But “a long way” means nothing. We must go all the way. Being close doesn’t count. Compromise isn’t an option here. If it is politically inconvenient to do what needs to be done, then we must change the politics, not cave to them. If the fossil fuel industry and our energy use pattern are driven by economic forces resistant to the required action, then we must change the economics, not skimp on the action. This is not about losing in an election cycle, or risking a recession. It’s about global catastrophe. Art SalukPembroke Pines, Fla. To the Editor: As a former Republican appointee at the Environmental Protection Agency and other government agencies, I was delighted to see Steven Rattner’s support for a carbon tax. The Times last year published an Op-Ed by Senator Trent Lott, former majority leader, supporting a carbon tax, and another Op-Ed promoted a carbon tax plan backed by former Secretaries of State James A. Baker III and George P. Shultz and a former Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., among others. All of these Republicans are certifiable as “conservatives,” and the current elected Republicans in the White House and Congress would be well advised to end their “no new taxes” mantra and face the realities of our climate issues by adopting market forces as one workable remedy to carbon emissions. As Mr. Rattner correctly noted, market forces can provide a significant answer to the problems without an increase in the federal bureaucracy. A carbon tax does that. It is also a matter of ethics. A livable planet with clean air is an ethical responsibility that we owe to posterity. Howard A. CohenPhiladelphiaThe writer teaches business ethics at Temple’s Fox School of Business. To the Editor: The carbon tax plan put forward by the Climate Leadership Council that Steven Rattner calls “particularly thoughtful” has the support of companies like Exxon because it contains a little-known provision that would grant the oil and gas industry blanket immunity from all the climate change damages it knowingly caused. Big oil has been sued by at least 14 government entities seeking to recover the enormous costs of adapting to climate change. A liability waiver, like the one buried in the council’s proposal, is the holy grail of industries seeking to avoid massive damage litigation. Tobacco and asbestos sought congressional immunity from liability and failed. The gun industry succeeded, and it is clear in that case that depriving citizens access to the courts served only to empower the National Rifle Association and block progress toward desperately needed regulations. Climate change demands bold action, now. The Green New Deal is exactly the visionary and ambitious plan that meets the challenge. A carbon tax may in fact be part of a comprehensive plan to tackle climate change. But it is not enough on its own, and it should never serve as cover for an effort to deny communities access to the courts. Richard WilesWashingtonThe writer is executive director of the Center for Climate Integrity. To the Editor: Steven Rattner states accurately that we need a climate solution, but that the Green New Deal is not the right one. As a college student, I could not agree more. The climate threat is a worldwide emergency that needs to be addressed to secure the livelihoods of my generation and subsequent ones. And although the Green New Deal has done much to bring national attention to climate change, many of my peers and I do not believe that it is feasible. At best, it would be highly partisan; at worst, it could stifle the economy. A far superior solution is the carbon dividends plan that Mr. Rattner mentions. Not only does it have the capability to reduce our emissions, but it will also stimulate our economy and spur sustainable innovation. Furthermore, its bipartisan support allows the plan to be long-lasting.  A carbon dividends plan is the strongest tool we have at our disposal to combat the climate threat. We should all support this plan to secure the future of our country and our world. Rohit GiridharanNew HavenThe writer, a Yale University student, is media outreach team leader for Students for Carbon Dividends. To the Editor: Steven Rattner proposes a tax on retail gasoline sales but does not mention the Yellow Vest reaction to the same policy proposal in France (since abandoned) that is destabilizing the French government and society in the most severe way since 1968. Do we not need to worry about that because of American exceptionalism? I don’t think so. Sandy K. FeldmanNew York", "id": "5ca64c0249f0eacbf1f80f44", "date": "2019-04-04T18:23:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Cold Weather and Climate Change Are Connected", "full_text": " Climate Fwd: Also this week: A good reason to call your cable company. Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. Hi, everybody! If you are in the areas of the United States affected by the polar vortex (and do click that link for a dazzling visual explanation of the phenomenon), we hope you’re bundling up. LAYERS, PEOPLE. Some of the temperatures we’re seeing in the Midwest are the frostiest in decades, a reminder of colder times. But let’s all please put one much-discussed line to rest: Yes, it’s colder in Chicago or Des Moines than in some parts of Antarctica. But it’s summer in the Southern Hemisphere, so it’s not that shocking. (Yes, The New York Times used this factoid, too.) If you are chilling out in the United States, you might be asking what this deep freeze could have to do with climate change. (Or you might want to know how to respond to an argumentative friend or relative.) We’re here for you. Kendra Pierre-Louis has the answer in a story that explains that, while climate can affect weather extremes, climate is not weather. As Kendra put it: “A billionaire who has forgotten his wallet one day is not poor, any more than a poor person who lands a windfall of several hundred dollars is suddenly rich. What matters is what happens over the long term.” Not only that, but there’s also evidence to suggest that climate change plays a role in the plunging of the polar vortex. Australia, by the way, has been dangerously hot. In an article on the front page of Wednesday’s print edition, our colleague Somini Sengupta took the global view, telling us to get used to “weather in the age of extremes.” We also looked at a new study suggesting that plants under the stress of climate change might absorb less carbon dioxide. That’s bad news: We’ll need all the help from plants that we can get. “We have this image of the planet getting very, very green as we move into the future,” an author of the study told Kendra, “but it may be the opposite.” And while China has said it will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, Somini tells us about a new study showing that the country, the planet’s coal juggernaut, is not meeting its own regulations to reduce methane emissions from its many coal plants. Back in the United States, the government shutdown is over, but President Trump insists that the fight for a border wall is not. If he does find a way to extend the physical barrier farther across the southern border, experts warn, the result could be disastrous for wildlife. Now, here’s something to think about if you’re staying home, bundling up and watching TV today: Noah Horowitz never thought much about his cable boxes. “If you have service and it’s working, you don’t think about the box top,” he said. But he noticed that the boxes generated heat constantly and that the lights stayed on even when he turned the boxes off. He wondered how much power that was drawing. Mr. Horowitz is a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group, who specializes in energy efficiency. So, he looked into these set-top boxes and found out that they’re enormous power drains. That was in 2011. At the time, a single DVR unit chewed through as much as 275 kilowatt-hours per year, more than half as much as some Energy Star refrigerators. And many homes had more than one box. In total, the defense council estimated that set-top boxes in the United States were consuming about $3 billion worth of electricity each year. Those numbers drew attention in the news media, and TV providers promised to make their equipment more efficient. According to Mr. Horowitz, there has been some improvement; power consumption on newer units is about two-thirds of what it used to be. One of the most significant recent changes benefits homes with multiple TVs. In the past, each TV might have had its own DVR (the most power-consuming set-top box). Today, though, you can use just one DVR with side units that require much less power. “The best thing people can do is, if they’ve got multiple DVRs, trade them in for the new upgraded system,” Mr. Horowitz said. “You’ll cut the energy use from the equipment by about a half.” He also suggested unplugging units that you don’t use very often. Still, as of 2017, set-top boxes in the United States were using about seven large power plants’ worth of electricity each year, Mr. Horowitz said. He’d like to see more app-based services instead of boxes. And there has already been some movement in that direction. Sling and YouTube TV, for example, provide television over the internet. These apps are delivered either directly through a smart TV or via devices like Apple TV, Roku and Amazon Fire, which use under 25 kW-h per year. That’s an eighth of what a modern DVR box uses. “This is where the technology is going,” and it will be good for the environment, Mr. Horowitz said. The #10YearChallenge has shown us that some celebrities have barely aged a day over the past decade. Unfortunately, one can’t say the same for coral reefs, forests or Arctic ice. Scientists, environmental activists and others have taken advantage of the trend on social media to create moments of reflection about the planet. “The only 10-year challenge we should care about” is perhaps the most common climate-related refrain right now. Many posts, like the one below from the German soccer star Mesut Özil, have included side-by-side photographs of an unidentified iceberg, supposedly taken a decade apart.  Though the origin of those photos isn’t clear, it’s true that near-record sea ice minimums have now occurred every year for the past 12 years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s most recent Arctic Report Card. “What will the Arctic look like in 10 more years?” Leonardo DiCaprio wrote on Instagram alongside photos of melting ice caps from 100 years ago and today. Manish Bapna, executive vice president of the World Resources Institute, a think tank in Washington, tweeted side-by-side global temperature maps from the 19th and 21st centuries, calling climate change “the biggest #10YearChallenge.” And the Kenya office of the environmental group World Wildlife Fund used the meme to tweet some good news: the ongoing restoration of Lake Naivasha, a freshwater lake northwest of Nairobi that a decade ago was hard-hit by problems including deforestation and soil erosion. Edward Maibach, director of the Center for Climate Change Communication at George Mason University, said social media discussions were probably not as conducive as in-person conversations to shaping opinions about the warming of the planet. But, he wrote in an email, “The notion of a #10YearChallenge is a particularly interesting conversation to start, because it easily brings both urgency and opportunity into the conversation.” Here are a few more climate takes on the #10YearChallenge: We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com. If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook  Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c5202403a125f5075c072ae", "date": "2019-01-30T19:59:47+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Sensible Climate Change Solution, Borrowed From Sweden", "full_text": " Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. A BRIGHT FUTURE How Some Countries Have Solved Climate Change and the Rest Can Follow By Joshua S. Goldstein and Staffan A. Qvist Some years ago, while studying how societies transitioned from one energy source to another over the past 200 years, the Italian physicist Cesare Marchetti and his colleagues discovered a hard truth: It takes almost a century for a new source of primary energy — coal, petroleum, natural gas, nuclear power — to command half the world market. Just to grow to 10 percent from 1 percent takes almost 50 years. You would expect suppliers to switch quickly to a better (more abundant, cheaper, cleaner) source. But infrastructure has to catch up: In America, natural gas needed long-distance pipelines to go national; electric cars need still-scarce charging stations. People have to adapt: Elizabethan preachers condemned coal as literally the Devil’s excrement; some Victorian homeowners comfortable with gaslight thought Edison’s light bulbs too bright. Competition from heavily invested older sources has to be overcome, as with fossil fuels today. These and other changes take time. Today, with global temperatures rising, time is running short. That’s the starting point of Joshua Goldstein and Staffan Qvist’s smart new study of how we can move away from fossil fuels. A double burden compounds the problem. We have to limit any further increase in greenhouse gas production, as the 2018 Paris Agreement specifies. But this isn’t enough. “Decarbonization,” the authors write, “requires both replacing existing fossil fuels and meeting new demand from carbon-free sources.” That second challenge has hardly yet been addressed. It must be, especially given the increasing prosperity of the developing regions — China, India, Africa — which the authors correctly say both “want more energy” and “have a moral right to it.” As a consequence, worldwide energy consumption 30 years from now is projected to be about 50 percent higher than it is today. If that number sounds exaggerated, think of four billion Asians installing air-conditioning. For Goldstein (an emeritus professor of international relations) and Qvist (a Swedish engineer), the only possible solution to this double dilemma is a rapid, worldwide expansion of nuclear power. No other source or collection of sources of energy, they argue, is positioned to meet these challenges in time. Without growth in nuclear power, replacing fossil fuels with renewables simply decarbonizes the existing supply. It doesn’t deal with the increased demand coming from the developing world. One of the countries that have “solved climate change,” as the book’s subtitle has it, is Sweden, Qvist’s homeland. Much as France did before it, Sweden achieved this by expanding its electrical supply with nuclear power rather than fossil fuels. Its concern at the time, in the 1970s, wasn’t global warming but reliability: Further hydropower development was environmentally undesirable, and the oil crises of that decade made petroleum an unpredictable source. Between 1970 and 1990, Sweden built a dozen nuclear power plants on four sites, eight of which continue to operate today. They supply 40 percent of Sweden’s electricity, equal to its hydropower. Wind and biofuels supply the rest. As a result, electricity in Sweden is cheap, clean and reliable. Serendipitously, the authors point out, “Sweden became the most successful country in history at expanding low-carbon electricity generation and leading the way in addressing climate change.” Goldstein and Qvist contrast Sweden’s experience with Germany’s. That country decided to switch to renewables, mostly wind and solar, while eliminating nuclear power. By doubling renewables while cutting nuclear, “it just substituted one carbon-free source for another, and CO2 emissions did not really decrease at all.” Today, 40 percent of Germany’s energy comes from dirty brown coal; six of Europe’s 10 most polluting power plants are German. After this initial view of two contrasting European programs, “A Bright Future” is largely devoted to debunking the many attacks nuclear power has weathered over the years. “The antinuclear movement has progressed through reasons to oppose nuclear power,” the authors write, “one after another.” It was too dangerous. Then it would lead to weapons proliferation. Then it was uneconomical, an argument still made, one the authors debunk when it comes to countries like Sweden and South Korea that haven’t experienced the strangulating effect of heavy government regulation and antinuclear litigation. Then it was unnecessary because it was argued that renewables could do the job. “But in every case where nuclear power was shut down, renewables have not filled the gap and CO2 emissions have gone up, whereas in places such as Ontario that expanded nuclear power, emissions went down.” A final claim, that nuclear power is politically infeasible, “is just a self-fulfilling prophecy, and we should not be so quick to write off the most practical solution for humanity’s most serious problem. … Politics have a way of catching up with necessity.” I happen to be in sympathy with these authors’ view that nuclear power must be a major part of the worldwide campaign to limit and reverse global warming. Their discussion omits an important historical component, however, one that has subverted logical argument. Historically, the antinuclear movement didn’t emerge from environmental concerns, which is why arguments for nuclear’s environmental advantages often fall on deaf ears. The movement originated out of a panic among European and American intellectuals in the 1950s and ’60s about overpopulation, expressed most luridly in such popular books as the entomologist Paul Ehrlich’s 1969 “The Population Bomb.” They believed more power plants would exacerbate human density and urban growth. But nuclear power champions like Alvin Weinberg, the longtime director of America’s Oak Ridge National Laboratory, countered that nuclear could supply energy enough to forestall the social collapse the neo-Malthusians feared. In the end, the green revolution and the demographic transition that followed third-world economic development met food needs and limited population growth, now predicted to level off at 10 billion by 2100. But by then nuclear power was anathema to the Democratic Party and American and European Greens, a tragic misalignment of liberal values. The tide may be turning. Politics may catch up with necessity. But the “Green New Deal” recently championed in Congress includes even existing nuclear power production only grudgingly, and promotes the notion that “A Bright Future” disputes — that 100 percent renewables can save the day. Nuclear has stalled in America and in Western Europe, largely for political reasons, partly because of the boom in fracked natural gas. (Natural gas releases fully half as much CO2 as coal. But except for the manufacture of its construction materials and fuel, nuclear releases none.)  Momentum has shifted to China and Russia, which are building advanced reactors for domestic use as well as for sale in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Both, however, are increasing nuclear power production at home in order to sell their fossil fuels abroad, with little net gain against global warming. Whether all these oppositions will converge in time to spare us from global disaster remains to be seen. Their eyes on Sweden, Goldstein and Qvist are hopeful. I would like to be, but Cesare Marchetti’s evidence of the inertia inherent in energy transitions haunts me. As a harbinger of what’s coming if we don’t hurry, the Iranian city of Bandar Mahshahr in August 2015 suffered a heat index — combining temperature and humidity — of 165 degrees Fahrenheit. That’s the proper internal temperature of a cooked chicken. Richard Rhodes is the author, most recently, of “Energy: A Human History.” A BRIGHT FUTURE How Some Countries Have Solved Climate Change and the Rest Can Follow By Joshua S. Goldstein and Staffan A. Qvist 288 pp. PublicAffairs. $26.", "id": "5c595ea93a125f5075c080c8", "date": "2019-02-05T10:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Central American Farmers Head to the U.S., Fleeing Climate Change", "full_text": " CORQUÍN, Honduras — The farmer stood in his patch of forlorn coffee plants, their leaves sick and wilted, the next harvest in doubt. Last year, two of his brothers and a sister, desperate to find a better way to survive, abandoned their small coffee farms in this mountainous part of Honduras and migrated north, eventually sneaking into the United States. Then in February, the farmer’s 16-year-old son also headed north, ignoring the family’s pleas to stay. The challenges of agricultural life in Honduras have always been mighty, from poverty and a neglectful government to the swings of international commodity prices. But farmers, agricultural scientists and industry officials say a new threat has been ruining harvests, upending lives and adding to the surge of families migrating to the United States: climate change. And their worries are increasingly shared by climate scientists as well. Gradually rising temperatures, more extreme weather events and increasingly unpredictable patterns — like rain not falling when it should, or pouring when it shouldn’t — have disrupted growing cycles and promoted the relentless spread of pests. The obstacles have cut crop production or wiped out entire harvests, leaving already poor families destitute. Central America is among the regions most vulnerable to climate change, scientists say. And because agriculture employs much of the labor force — about 28 percent in Honduras alone, according to the World Bank — the livelihoods of millions of people are at stake. Last year, the bank reported that climate change could lead at least 1.4 million people to flee their homes in Mexico and Central America and migrate during the next three decades. The United States has allocated tens of millions of dollars in aid in recent years for farmers across Central America, including efforts to help them adapt to the changing climate. But President Trump has vowed to cut off all foreign aid to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador because of what he calls their failure to curb the flow of migrants north. Critics contend the punishment is misguided, though, because it could undermine efforts to address the very problems that are driving people to abandon their farms and head to the United States. “If Donald Trump withdraws all the funds for Honduras, it’s going to generate more unemployment, and that’s going to generate more migration,” said María Esperanza López, the general manager of Copranil, a coffee-growers cooperative here in western Honduras. “And that’s going to result in more abandoned farms.” Coffee cultivators in the region are at particular risk of disruption because the crop is highly sensitive to weather variations. Fredi Onan Vicen Peña, the coffee farmer whose brothers, sister and teenage son have already given up and joined the exodus north, reached over and tore a leaf off one of his plants. It was a mottled yellow and brown: signs of coffee rust, a disease whose spread has been influenced by climate variability. As much as 70 percent of his crop, planted across five acres in a pine forest, had been affected, he estimated, and there was little chance he could salvage it. “Climate change is destroying some farms,” said Mr. Vicen, 41. Beyond that, some of his healthier plants had begun to blossom nearly two months ahead of schedule because of a heavy unseasonable downpour, throwing the entire growing cycle into doubt. “This is not something we predicted,” Mr. Vicen said. Average temperatures have risen by about two degrees Fahrenheit in Central America over the past several decades, making the cultivation of coffee difficult, if not untenable, at lower altitudes that were once suitable. That has forced some farmers to search for land at higher altitudes, switch to other crops, change professions — or migrate. “Some very fine families that have been producing quality coffee for a long time are now facing the decision of whether to stay in coffee,” said Catherine M. Tucker, a professor of anthropology at the University of Florida who has done research in Honduras for more than two decades. Some climate scientists say that in the absence of long-term meteorological data, it is hard for them to say with certainty whether the increasing variability is caused by long-term changes in the region’s climate. But, they say, they are leaning in that direction. “It’s becoming so unusual, it’s almost certainly climate change,” said Dr. Edwin J. Castellanos, dean of the Research Institute at the Universidad del Valle de Guatemala, a university in Guatemala City, and one of Central America’s leading scientists in the field of climate change. Climate change is rarely the sole factor in the decision to migrate. Violence and poverty are prime drivers, but climate change can be a tipping point, farmers and experts say. “Small farmers are already living in poverty; they’re already at the threshold of not being able to survive,” Mr. Castellanos said. “So any changes in the situation may push them to have enough incentives to leave.” The outlook for the region seems bleak. Reduced yields of coffee and subsistence crops like corn and beans could significantly increase food insecurity and malnutrition. By some predictions, the amount of land suitable for growing coffee in Central America could drop by more than 40 percent by 2050. The number of coffee producers in the area where Mr. Vicen lives has dropped by a quarter in the past decade — to about 9,000 from about 12,000 — partly because of pressure from climate change, said Marlon Danilo Mejía, the regional coordinator for the Honduran Coffee Institute, an industry trade group. A vast majority are small producers, managing less than about nine acres each, he said. José Edgardo Vicen, 37, one of Mr. Vicen’s brothers, had weighed migrating for years. He had worked in the coffee fields since he was a boy, continuing the family tradition. In this part of Honduras, coffee is a major crop, with an increasing amount bound for North America, Europe and Asia. But after a rust outbreak and other pressures in recent years, including plunging commodity prices, the younger Mr. Vicen said he could no longer earn enough from his harvest to cover production costs. He headed north with his 14-year-old son last August, crossed the border illegally and settled in Texas. A brother and a sister, driven by similar circumstances, left Honduras soon afterward and also sneaked into the United States. “For the small producer, I promise you, there’s no way to get ahead,” said Mr. Vicen, who now works in construction and sends remittances home to support his wife and daughter. When he was younger, harvest time “was like a party,” he recalled. Now, “there are only losses, no profits.” Fifteen producers from the Vicens’ coffee cooperative — more than 10 percent of its members — have migrated to the United States in the past year, said Ms. Esperanza López, the general manager of the cooperative. They have joined thousands of others from villages in Honduras’s western highlands. Stephanie Leutert, director of the Mexico Security Initiative at the University of Texas at Austin, said that government statistics on apprehension of migrants at the southwest border of the United States in recent years reflect a sharp increase in people from western Honduras. After large caravans of migrants arrived last fall in Tijuana, Mexico, a United Nations survey found that 72 percent of those surveyed were from Honduras — and 28 percent of the respondents had worked in the agricultural sector. The exodus of farm workers has worsened already serious labor shortages in western Honduras. Some industry leaders in the region joke that if the caravans in recent months were “the laborer caravans,” the next wave will be “the grower caravans.” Coffee farmers have been scrambling to adjust to the changes, learning which species are more resistant to plague and drought, and branching out into other crops — like cacao, avocados or trees that produce construction-grade wood. Nongovernmental and public-private initiatives have also taken root in coffee-growing regions of Central America and around the world to help guide farmers. Some have received the backing of the world’s biggest coffee sellers — like Starbucks, Tim Horton’s and Lavazza — trying to ensure their future supply. Yet even the application of best practices is no guarantee that everything will be fine. “The weather is crazy,” said Carlos Peña Orellana, 58, a farmer and member of a local coffee cooperative. “Everything’s out of control.” He owns 12 acres of land but can afford to farm only about five. He gets by with income from a tomato greenhouse he built with the cooperative’s help, and with remittances from two sons who migrated to the United States after struggling through the rust crisis of 2012-13. “They’re helping to revive the farm,” he said at his ramshackle ranch one recent afternoon. “It’s really difficult now.” He turned to his youngest son, Carlos, 12, and saw a future migrant. Pointing a leathery finger, he said: “You’re next, right?” Mr. Peña chuckled. The boy squirmed, saying nothing. Follow Kirk Semple on Twitter: @KirkSemple.    ", "id": "5cb1a57149f0eacbf1f83b6c", "date": "2019-04-13T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What Makes a Catastrophic Flood? And Is Climate Change Causing More of Them?", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. With floods submerging expanses of the Midwest and government scientists warning that this spring could bring a historic flood season in the United States, it’s natural to ask why it is happening. What causes catastrophic flooding? And what is the role of climate change? Each flood is its own phenomenon, tied to the specific circumstances in the area. “Flooding is complex,” Deke Arndt, a climate scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said Thursday in a briefing on the potentially dire flood season. “It has to do with precipitation falling to the ground,” Mr. Arndt said, “but also with the way that water is managed and the surface hydrology — how it flows across the land and is collected and runs off.” The question of water management involves the building and maintenance of dams, levees, reservoirs and spillways. The “surface hydrology” part is about the landscape and how it affects the flow of water (for example, places rich in steep hills and valleys like Vermont can see severe destruction from intense rain events). And the development of housing, malls and other paved-over areas reduces the amount of open land that can absorb runoff. [Read more: Why have so many levees failed in the Midwest?] There are many other possible factors. The late-winter flooding in the Midwest, for example, involved large amounts of rain falling on frozen ground with high accumulations of snow. The rain helped melt the snow, and the frozen ground could not soak up the flow, causing enormous runoff. Short answer: Yes. Longer answer: It’s still complicated. These places have flooded before, and they will flood again. Still, large amounts of rain can increase the likelihood of flooding, and more heavy precipitation over the long term “is an expected and observed consequence of climate change,” Mr. Arndt wrote in an email. That is primarily because a warmer atmosphere can hold more moisture, and that means more precipitation.  Actually saying that climate change had a pronounced effect on a specific flooding event, like the one in the Midwest, would come after a long period of analysis with the tools of attribution science. “There’s going to need to be a lot of homework done between now and when we can give a definitive answer,” Mr. Arndt said during the briefing. Andrew Dessler, a climate scientist at Texas A&M University, said that climate change has a pervasive effect underlying extreme weather phenomena. “I think we have to move past the question of, ‘Is climate change affecting the weather?’” he said. “Of course it is.” The question to be answered by attribution science, he said, is, “How was it affected by climate change?” More water is on the way. “The major flooding we’ve already experienced across the lower Missouri and the middle to lower Mississippi Valley is a preview of what we expect through the rest of the spring,” said Mary C. Erickson, deputy director of the National Weather Service. “In fact, we expect the flooding will get worse, and become more widespread.” Forecasters are basing those predictions on the expectation that much of the continental United States will receive above-average precipitation this spring. This extra rain and melting snow will combine with what is left of the current floodwaters, which “will prolong and expand flooding, especially in the central and southern U.S.,” NOAA said in its Spring Outlook advisory. The agency also evaluated of a number of other factors, “including current conditions of snowpack, drought, soil moisture, frost depth, stream flow and precipitation.” Heavy precipitation can be a good thing. California has emerged from seven years of drought, and recent snow has brought a measure of relief to those dependent on waters from the Colorado River. But as Edward Clark, director of NOAA’s National Water Center in Tuscaloosa, Ala., put it, “This is shaping up to be a potentially unprecedented flood season, with more than 200 million people at risk for flooding in their communities.” As the Scouts tell us, be prepared. On a community level, that means having defenses in place to keep water away from homes and businesses; preventing people from building in harm’s way; and even moving those at the highest risk of flooding. The Association of State Floodplain Managers crowed a little about the success of Beatrice, Neb., along those lines: Gerald E. Galloway Jr., a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Maryland who led a major report on the devastating 1993 floods in the Midwest, said that community leaders had to ask themselves, in an increasingly uncertain world, what the worst that could happen might be and do their best to prepare for it. “It’s recognizing there’s a bump in the road ahead, and what are we going to do when we get to that bump — are we going to be prepared for that?” he said. Flood safety is everyone’s business. It’s crucial to know your own level of risk. You can determine whether your home is in a flood plain by entering your address in the search tool offered by the FEMA flood map service center. If the waters do come, you should have a plan for evacuation or a safe place to go, and a way to protect valuables and critical documents from damage. You can find more information on the federal site Ready.gov, including tips for creating an emergency kit with medical supplies, batteries and other essentials in case you need to get out. Similar information can be found at other sites, including one maintained by the American Red Cross. Consider flood insurance, even if you’re not in an area of high risk. The National Flood Insurance Program has more information. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c9531ed49f0eacbf105e8e6", "date": "2019-03-22T19:03:46+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Confronting Climate Change: Don’t Panic", "full_text": " letters Readers discuss an essay that called for “alarmism and catastrophic thinking.” To the Editor: Re “Time to Panic,” by David Wallace-Wells (Sunday Review, Feb. 17): As a co-editor of the 1989 Environmental Protection Agency Report to Congress on climate change effects on America and an author of three Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports and National Climate Assessments, I can assure you that these assessments have not played down the risks of climate change; there is little incentive to exclude scientific information on risk.  Report authors focus on getting it right — making sure that the science supports our findings on potential risks (and benefits) from climate change. Our drafts are subject to extensive review. Report authors often disagreed about how to interpret the science, but I did not witness deliberate downplaying or burying of information on risks from climate change. Beyond this, the article’s call for “panic” is disturbing. We need a major effort to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This requires boldness, but also rational analysis and leadership, not panic. Panic leads to irrationality, finger-pointing and often tragedy. Let’s keep our heads on. Joel B. SmithBoulder, Colo. To the Editor: A number of concerned psychiatrists from all over the country have recognized the points raised by David Wallace-Wells. We formed an organization, the Climate Psychiatry Alliance, explicitly focused on raising awareness of the mental health effects of climate disruption.  We provide information and guidance for mental health professionals, health care organizations and systems, and public health entities for how best to address the wide range of mental health and public health concerns that derive from global warming.  We believe that we can heal and sustain what I like to call “a good-enough Mother Earth.”  David A. PollackPortland, Ore.", "id": "5c7ec9a049f0eacbf105b795", "date": "2019-03-05T19:08:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Finland's Election Topics: Climate Change, Welfare, Aging", "full_text": " HELSINKI — Finns will be voting Sunday to fill the country's 200-seat Eduskunta parliament after a campaign that saw debates over the country's generous welfare model, its rapidly aging population and how far to go to fight climate change. Here's a look at the key issues and the main players in the election: JUST THE FACTS Some 4.5 million people are eligible to vote in Sunday's parliamentary election in Finland and will be choosing between 19 political parties and movements. Early voting is popular. Over 1.5 million people, or 36% of eligible voters, have already cast their ballots in advance. The results of that early vote will be published as soon the polls have closed Sunday at 1700 GMT (1 p.m. EDT), and fuller preliminary results are expected a few hours later. ___ CLIMATE CHANGE TENSIONS Tackling climate change is a priority in a Nordic country that has one-third of its territory above the Arctic Circle, but there are clear tensions over what path to choose. Finland is boosting its nuclear energy production by launching a new plant next year and lawmakers last month voted to completely phase out burning coal by 2029. Many parties back actions to fight global warming, include boosting the number of electric vehicles, cutting meat consumption through taxes or switching to more vegetarian food in public places like schools. The populist Finns Party, however, has broadened its support by appealing to those who reject such sacrifices in the name of climate change. ___ QUALITY OF LIFE AND OTHER ELECTION TOPICS Finnish voters have also been debating how best to preserve the country's health and social system, which for years has topped global quality-of-life and happiness rankings and created a world-renowned education system. There are some divisions over proposed reforms, which are getting more urgent since the country's population of 5.5 million is rapidly aging. One plan aims to improve efficiency and reduce public spending by offering Finnish municipalities more freedom to choose between public and private providers for social needs and health care. ___ FINLAND'S MAIN CONTENDERS Finland's center-left Social Democratic Party tops a recent poll with 19% support, according to a poll this week commissioned by Finnish public broadcaster YLE. The party would still need to find coalition partners if it ended up trying to form the next government. Led by Antti Rinne, a former finance minister, the Social Democrats plan to raise taxes and increase spending to preserve a welfare system that is under huge strain. The party has also vowed to continue the country's pro-European Union stance. Other key parties include the populist Finns Party led by Jussi Halla-aho, which is focusing on voters angry at urban global elites, and the National Coalition Party led by Petteri Orpo. Those parties took second and third places in the poll with 16.3% and 15.9% support, respectively. They are trailed by the Center Party and the Greens, who have strong urban support and back moves to fight climate change. Finland's outgoing center-right coalition government, led by Prime Minister Juha Sipila of the Center Party, pushed through an austerity package that has helped Finland return to growth after a three-year recession. ___ FINLAND'S OTHER BIG POLITICAL JOB Finland will take over the rotating six-month presidency of the European Union on July 1.", "id": "5cb19f5249f0eacbf1f83b51", "date": "2019-04-13T08:34:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Canada’s Perverse Climate Change Policy: Gas Up", "full_text": " Pushing toward the worst scenario despite better options for the future of the environment. Mr. Dembicki is a journalist in British Columbia. VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Last month, to protest the start of the Canadian government putting a price on carbon emissions, right-leaning politicians across the country posted photographs of themselves on Twitter resolutely filling up their S.U.V.s, minivans and pickup trucks with gasoline. The next day, federal scientists announced that climate change is warming Canada twice as fast as the rest of the world. The findings in their terrifying report on April 1 help to explain the ocean acidification that’s threatening killer whales, why pine beetles are chewing a path of destruction through North America’s boreal forest, the disappearance of sea ice that has supported Inuit communities for millenniums and the exposure of millions of Canadians every day to ticks carrying Lyme disease. Held up against the report, the conservatives’ rebellion on social media instantly looked like an act of nihilism. Yet these very politicians are now racing toward greater power. If they prevail in two pivotal elections, they are likely to further accelerate the decimation of Canada’s environment. Jason Kenney, who leads the United Conservative Party in Alberta, is the front-runner going into a provincial election in the country’s oil heartland on Tuesday. Andrew Scheer, who helms the federal Conservative Party, wants to wrest the job of prime minister from Justin Trudeau in the national election this fall. Both conservative leaders’ campaign platforms mirror their Twitter accounts, spewing pledges that diametrically counter the new climate report’s aggregation of the best modern science. While the report expounds on the possibility of “two very different futures” — neither uplifting, but spanning a continuum of increasing severity — Mr. Kenney and Mr. Scheer are recklessly blazing a path toward unprecedented climate change. The magnitude of this destruction can still be minimized. Canadian voters still can, and must, make a crucial choice for the environment: between merely an awful future, or an unthinkable one. The report commissioned by the federal government, called “Canada’s Changing Climate,” technically and precisely outlines a spectrum of implications. One scenario considers the lowest emissions likely to be produced, the other adopts the highest projected emissions. Even if Canada and the rest of the world manage to slash carbon emissions wholesale over the next decade — the goal is near zero after 2050 — the report forecasts that Canada’s average temperature will still rise by 1.8 degrees Celsius (3.2 degrees Fahrenheit). If we hardly put a dent in global emissions, the country could suffer under hotter average temperatures of more than 6 degrees Celsius (10.8 degrees Fahrenheit) by the end of the century. Here’s a real-world example: Under the best-case scenario, Vancouver’s sea levels are likely to surge an awful 20 inches. They’ll double under the worst case. That’s pretty unthinkable for the more than 250,000 people already living in homes built 40 inches or less above the ocean. The reality just doesn’t square with how Canada’s leaders perform for an international audience. At the last World Economic Forum, Mr. Trudeau’s message was that “by thinking big, and working together, we will build a better world.” His government designed one of the world’s most ambitious carbon prices. At the Paris climate talks in 2015, he assured delegates, “We’re here to help.” Mr. Trudeau’s inspired words abroad often garner eye rolls at home. He promised to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, but his government still spends billions propping up the oil and gas industry. It also allocated 4.5 billion Canadian dollars ($3.41 billion U.S.) to nationalize a beleaguered oil pipeline from the company Kinder Morgan last year, while the country is expected to fall well short of its 2030 climate targets. That said, these policies look like progress compared to what the gas-pumping Conservatives have planned. Most of their proposals drive Canada ever closer to the worst possible scenario in the climate report. Mr. Kenney in Alberta has vowed to scrap his province’s version of the carbon tax, and then launch a legal assault to obliterate the landmark federal policy. At the national level, Mr. Scheer has urged voters to “Fill your tank!” via mass text message. He too plans to repeal Canada’s carbon price — it’s the first act he has promised as prime minister should he win in October. He hasn’t offered any replacement strategies for reducing emissions. All this defiant anti-environmentalism looks more perverse than ever, though it’s nothing new for the conservative movement. If an election is on, expect a Tory to be trashing the proponents of a “job-killing” carbon tax (and then ignoring the earth once in office). By using noxious framing to obscure the carbon price’s value as a tool for reducing emissions, they’ve won multiple big races over the last decade. It was a successful gambit for former Prime Minister Stephen Harper back in 2008, and he expects it to keep working wonders. “Let the other guys do a carbon tax, because we can all win the next federal and provincial elections on that issue alone,” he confidently told supporters just last year.  Another election cycle, and no alternative that’s not awful. The governing Liberals, reeling and weakened by a major corruption scandal, are poorly positioned to stop the Conservatives. Jagmeet Singh, the leader of the federal New Democratic Party, which is now ranking a distant third, has rightly called climate change “the single greatest threat we face.” But even Mr. Singh supports the construction of a $30 billion liquefied natural gas project in northern British Columbia. The new climate report clearly warns that making certain choices now will propel ever graver consequences. Extrapolate from the recording-breaking wildfires in Western Canada last year that scorched 3.3 million acres, choking Vancouver with smoke that at times was worse to breathe than the air in Beijing. Those fires consumed more than 10 times greater an area of land than otherwise, suggest researchers, due to 1.9 degrees Celsius (3.4 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming in that region related to human activity. Imagine dumping another 1.6 degrees Celsius (2.9 degrees Fahrenheit) of warming as tinder on those fires, the amount Canadian scientists predict temperatures to rise in the region by the end of the century under even the best of circumstances. Adding fuel of 5.2 degrees Celsius (9.4 degrees Fahrenheit), which is the worst-case scenario, sounds downright apocalyptic. But that is the unthinkable future Mr. Kenney and Mr. Scheer are pushing Canada toward. Their victories portend a country where 95 percent of the glaciers people rely on for fresh water have vanished, 50-year floods in Halifax occur every two years and the surrounding Arctic Ocean is emptied of ice floats each summer. These catastrophic scenarios are not, as of this moment, guaranteed. We still have the power and agency to protect our vast and precious wilderness. Canadians can start by rejecting the self-interested delusions offered by Conservative leaders at gas stations and in the Twitterverse. The best way to improve our odds of survival is to accept the reality in front of us. Geoff Dembicki is the author of “Are We Screwed? How a New Generation is Fighting to Survive Climate Change.” @GeoffDembicki The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cb4567f49f0eacbf1f84214", "date": "2019-04-15T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Britain Calls for Climate Change Focus at IMF Meeting", "full_text": " WASHINGTON/LONDON — British Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond said on Thursday he would urge fellow international policymakers to find ways to achieve sustainable economic growth and tackle climate change at meetings this week in Washington. Hammond is travelling to the spring meetings of finance ministers and central bank governors at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, just hours after Prime Minister Theresa May secured a delay to Britain's departure from the European Union, potentially until Oct. 31. The British finance minister made no direct mention of Brexit in his statement, but said he wanted to share his country's expertise in areas ranging from climate change to trade. \"Britain is at a turning point and our future is bright. We must work together with our partners across the world to create a safer, more prosperous and more sustainable economy for future generations,\" he said before his departure for Washington. Hammond also said he would call on countries to pay their fair share to the IMF. Britain's finance ministry said Hammond was speaking on the environment as part of a new grouping of finance ministers led by Finland and Chile called the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action, which was formed after the last IMF meeting in Bali, Indonesia, in October. Hammond is also due to speak to U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and Chinese finance minister Liu Kun to discuss trade and investment after Brexit, as well as Brazil's new economy minister Paulo Guedes.  (Reporting by David Milliken and William Schomberg; Editing by Paul Simao)", "id": "5caf669949f0eacbf1f82d53", "date": "2019-04-11T16:07:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Who Will Be the 2020 Climate Candidate? There Are Lots of Choices", "full_text": " Climate Fwd: Also this week: We’re getting ready to live without plastic packaging. How hard could it be? Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. Hi, everybody! As the world heats up, we’re seeing the effects in the oceans, which have absorbed about 90 percent of the heat trapped by excess greenhouse gases since midcentury. Our colleague Kendra Pierre-Louis has written two warm-ocean articles since our last newsletter. One, with Nadja Popovich, looks at the increasing number of ocean heat waves and the damage they are doing to marine life. The other covers a study that says fish populations are declining as oceans warm, putting a major source of the world’s nutrition at risk. That’s more evidence that climate change is on the march. But in Washington, President Trump is increasingly isolated in his denial of climate science, even among some senior Republicans. He is still getting his way on environmental issues in Congress, however, most recently with the confirmation of Andrew R. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, to head the Environmental Protection Agency. But activists are pushing the Democratic leadership to take on warming as a major issue. That hasn’t worked in the past, said David Axelrod, who was chief strategist to President Barack Obama. “Climate change, to our frustration, was never an issue that rung a bell with voters, particularly in the throes of coming out of an economic crisis,” he said. “But now we’re a decade down the road, and the road is surrounded by floods and fires in a way that is becoming more and more visible.” More visible, yes — but still open to a degree of rhetorical twisting. Brad Plumer explored the “weather wars,” in which scientists are increasingly comfortable explaining the links between extreme weather events and climate change, but every cold snap gets trumpeted by those who deny the scientific evidence for global warming. Another recent study suggested that people may become inured to weather extremes over time. The researchers looked at billions of messages on social media and found that when weather extremes occurred repeatedly, people were less likely to comment about them online. Researchers suggested that this phenomenon might limit the public’s willingness to support action on global warming. Well, you might ask, which is it? Will climate change shift the goal posts of normality, or will there be louder calls for action? The 2020 presidential race might help sort that out. It’s official: The 2020 Democratic presidential field is now awash with climate candidates. Over the weekend, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington announced that he would run, declaring himself the “only candidate who will make defeating climate change our nation’s No. 1 priority.” In fact, every other Democratic presidential candidate has underlined his or her commitment to curbing planet-warming emissions — making the 2020 election much different from four years ago, when climate change was rarely mentioned. “For far too long, climate change didn’t get nearly the attention that it deserved, either on the campaign trail or off, and that clearly has changed in a major way,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president for government affairs at the League of Conservation Voters. In addition to Governor Inslee, Senators Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Amy Klobuchar, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have all identified climate change as a top campaign issue, as has John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado. To varying degrees they have all also expressed support for the Green New Deal, a nonbinding congressional resolution that calls for a 10-year mobilization to dramatically reduce the burning of fossil fuels in the United States. Some political scientists have suggested that extreme weather has made the issue of climate change more immediate for voters. Others say that President Trump’s denial of climate science has actually highlighted the problem. And the Green New Deal and one of its main sponsors, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have sparked new enthusiasm among Democratic voters. Thomas J. Pyle, the president of the Institute for Energy Research, a think tank that supports fossil fuels, said that, with so many Democratic candidates talking about climate, it would be harder for a candidate like Governor Inslee to stand out. “If he ran in the last go-round he could probably distinguish himself as Mr. Green Jeans, but he’s just going to be one more voice in the choir promoting these extreme ideas,” Mr. Pyle said. One thing that’s been missing from the early campaign discourse, however, is what the candidates would actually do. For all the talk of a Green New Deal, there has been little support for its main policy prescription: a price on carbon. Robert Shrum, a professor of politics at the University of Southern California and a longtime adviser to Democratic candidates, said he was not concerned by the lack of specifics at this point. “There will be a lot of push in the Democratic primaries to pin people down on specific positions, but right now it’s early days,” Mr. Shrum said. “What’s clear is that the climate issue really matters.” When it comes to leading a sustainable lifestyle, I think I’m doing an O.K. job. But I have to admit that I waste a lot of plastic. I just took a quick look around my kitchen and found about 20 food products in nonrecyclable plastic packaging, including baked tofu, smoked salmon, goat cheese, spices, cereals and chocolate chip cookies. In a matter of days, all that plastic will end up in the trash can, and it will later be part of the roughly 35 million tons of plastic that waste disposal services collect every year in the United States. Though some of these plastics will be recycled and reused as something else, chances are that they’ll eventually wind up in a landfill or in the environment anyway. According to a United Nations estimate, by 2050, there will be roughly 12 billion metric tons of plastic litter in landfills or the environment worldwide, and it will stay there for hundreds of years because plastics decompose so slowly. Since most food products and toiletries come in disposable plastic packaging, is it possible to avoid using plastic in this way? Sophie Bortolussi, a dancer and choreographer in New York City, has been trying to do just that for about a year — “for the common good,” she said. Finding staples like bread, yogurt, coffee and pasta in reusable or biodegradable packaging was easy, but nowadays she very rarely buys sparkling water, olives, berries and cookies. She shops in food co-ops, farmers’ markets and old-school grocery stores that sell products in bulk. “I’ve created new habits around my plastic-free lifestyle by learning what I can buy and where,” she said. She’s far from the only person trying to go “zero waste.” Many converts chronicle their waste-free lifestyles in blogs and YouTube videos, and some pioneers, like Lauren Singer, have started businesses that sell package-free products. Sabrina Katz, 24, says she was once a “shopaholic,” but in college she came across Ms. Singer’s blog Trash Is For Tossers, which inspired her to go plastic-free. It wasn’t easy — she had to give up chips, many tofu products, granola bars and Oreos. But three and a half years later, she still buys most of her groceries at stores that sell in bulk and takes them home in Mason jars. “The foods that I find in bulk are really healthy foods — things like beans, whole grains, oats, pasta and fresh fruits and vegetables,” she said. “That means that I cook most of what I eat, which is a blessing and a curse.” Like Ms. Bortolussi and Ms. Katz, I want to see if I can reduce the amount of plastic I waste. Over the next week, I’ll adopt a lifestyle free of plastic packaging. I think it will be “a blessing and a curse.” Next week, I’ll let you know how the experiment went. In the meantime, we’d love to hear from you. Do you have tips on avoiding plastic packaging or plastics in other parts of your life? Let us know at climateteam@nytimes.com. We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com. If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook  Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c80217349f0eacbf105baec", "date": "2019-03-06T19:35:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate-Change Protesters Disrupt London Docklands Train Service", "full_text": " LONDON — Two environmental activists climbed onto the roof of a train in London's Canary Wharf financial district on Wednesday as part of a third day of action to force Britain to take more radical measures to avert climate change. The Extinction Rebellion group has ratcheted up its protests in recent weeks, blocking Marble Arch, Oxford Circus and Waterloo Bridge, smashing a door at the Shell building and shocking lawmakers with a semi-nude protest in parliament. Nearly 300 people have been arrested so far this week after campaigners blocked some of the capital's most iconic locations, many camping in tents on the streets. The group advocates non-violent civil disobedience to force governments to reduce carbon emissions and avert what it says is a global climate crisis that will bring starvation, floods, wildfires and social collapse. A man dressed in a dark suit and a woman wearing a black jacket stood on the roof of a train at the Docklands Light Railway (DLR) station in Canary Wharf, holding a banner which read: \"Climate Emergency. Act Now.\" Some passengers shouted at the pair to get off whilst police headed for the scene. Another activist glued himself to one of the trains.  Transport for London said there were minor delays on a branch of DLR services \"due to a customer incident\" at Canary Wharf. British Transport Police said they had arrested one man on suspicion of obstructing the railway.  Extinction Rebellion said such direct action was important to bring about change.  \"As with a labor strike, economic disruption is key in forcing the government to come to the table and negotiate our demands,\" they said on their website.  London Mayor Sadiq Khan had urged protesters to avoid targeting the city's public transit system.  \"It is absolutely crucial to get more people using public transport, as well as walking and cycling, if we are to tackle this climate emergency,\" Khan said. COST TO BUSINESS The protests have cost over 12 million pounds ($16 million)to businesses in London's West End, famous for its theaters and shops, with some seeing a 25 percent drop in sales and footfall.  \"This additional pressure is deeply damaging to London’s economy and reputation,\" said Jace Tyrrell, chief executive of the New West End Company, which represents businesses in the area. Police said they expected the demonstrations to continue in the next few weeks and promised to take action if necessary.  \"We need to ensure we are striking the right balance between allowing the right to a peaceful protest, while ensuring disruption to communities is kept to a minimum,\" Chief Superintendent Colin Wingrove said on Tuesday. The group is demanding the government declare a climate and ecological emergency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025 and create a citizen's assembly of members of the public to lead on decisions to address climate change. In 2017, total United Kingdom greenhouse gas emissions were 43 percent lower than in 1990 and 2.6 percent lower than 2016, according to government statistics.  (Writing by Guy Faulconbridge and Michael Holden; editing by Stephen Addison)", "id": "5cb6c9ec49f0eacbf1f84cd0", "date": "2019-04-17T06:37:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change Protesters Climb on Train at London's Canary Wharf", "full_text": " LONDON — Two climate change activists climbed onto the roof of a train at Canary Wharf's Docklands Light Railway station in London as part of a third day of action to pressure politicians to take more radical measures to protect the environment.  A man dressed in a dark suit and a woman wearing a black coat stood on the roof of a train in the station holding a banner which read: \"Climate Emergency. Act Now.\"  (Reporting by Guy Faulconbridge; writing by Costas Pitas; editing by Michael Holden)", "id": "5cb6fe0449f0eacbf1f84dd9", "date": "2019-04-17T10:19:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change and Human History", "full_text": " Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. NATURE’S MUTINY How the Little Ice Age of the Long Seventeenth Century Transformed the West and Shaped the Present By Philipp Blom From around 1570 to 1710, temperatures in the earth’s Northern Hemisphere plunged by an average of about 2 degrees Celsius — roughly the same amount by which the planet’s temperature is supposed to rise under the more catastrophic predictions of our warming futures. Two degrees colder meant a growing season shortened by three weeks. The apocalyptic changes that are coming — bigger storms, higher seas, longer heat waves, more insect-born disease — remain, for now, a task for the imagination. But the impact of those long-ago icy winters, frigid summers and torrential autumns requires no imagination: It’s all recorded in contemporary sources. In “Nature’s Mutiny,” Philipp Blom, a German historian, treats this one well-documented period of climate change, the so-called Little Ice Age, as an experiment in what can happen to a society when its baseline conditions, all ultimately dependent upon the weather, are shaken. The premise of treating historical sources as a way of answering current questions is so good that Blom should have stuck to it. He is tempted, however, into making everything new in the 17th century a result of climate change, and this can only be true by so diluting the notion of causation as to render his claim meaningless — or just plain vulnerable. The initial crisis was food insecurity, much as it will be for us. Hunger hit the countrysides of Europe first. If peasants starved and then abandoned the country for the cities, the aristocrats, who lived off peasant production for both food and wealth, went down with them. People living on the land at least had direct access to whatever food there was; those in cities were dependent on rural surplus reaching them, and when it didn’t, they rioted. They were also pushed into even more extreme measures: During the siege of Paris in 1595 the starving defenders of the city discussed breaking into a cemetery, removing the bones, grinding them into a fine flour and then using it to bake bread. Resource scarcity stoked violence big and small. This was a century at war with itself: urban revolt, civil war and international conflict, and sometimes all at the same time. The losers were the ordinary people who died in vast numbers or were forced into exile as loathed refugees, also in vast numbers. The big winner was religion: Those who trafficked in biblical warnings about the end of the world got more attention. The most radical, who saw God’s flail in worsening weather, sometimes took matters into their own hands and abandoned Europe altogether to build on some distant shore their shining city on a hill. Few centuries in recent times were as dominated by religious upheaval as the long one that stretched from Luther to Louis XIV. Die-hard secularists take note. If there is a bright part of the story it’s that crisis forced innovation — or at least removed a bias in favor of doing things the way they always had been done. What we call “research” often came to the rescue: “The most basic proposals for tackling the climate crisis came from gentlemen scholars we would today call botanists and agricultural experts.” Why this occurred in Europe but not, say, in China is an important question that Blom, unfortunately, declines to entertain. The book is marred by errors of fact. (Montesquieu wrote in the 18th century, not the 17th; the Jewish Pale of Settlement was created in the late 18th century, not the 17th.) It too often reads like a series of potted histories. But the main thrust is well worth pondering: Climate impacts human history. T. S. Eliot warned in “Four Quartets” that though nature seemed like a “solved” problem, “in the sombre season or the sudden fury” it was a “reminder of what men choose to forget.” Being lulled into forgetting nature is, at least, no longer our problem. Peter N. Miller is the dean of the Bard Graduate Center and the author of “Peiresc’s Europe: Learning and Virtue in the Seventeenth Century.” NATURE’S MUTINY How the Little Ice Age of the Long Seventeenth Century Transformed the West and Shaped the Present By Philipp Blom Illustrated. 332 pp. Liveright Publishing. $27.95.  OpinionGeoffrey Parker", "id": "5c7ec78d49f0eacbf105b78b", "date": "2019-03-05T19:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Preparing the Subways for Climate Change", "full_text": " letter A reader asks what the long-term defense against flood-prone tunnels will be. To the Editor: Re “Cuomo Scoffs at Plan to Lift Subway Fares” (front page, Jan. 23): The political gridlock over New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority — whether to raise fares, and the L train tunnel repairs — pales in comparison to the bigger question of the subway’s longer-term defense against climate change. In a better world all sides would work to re-elevate tracks and trains above future mega-floods and surges. After all, the Brooklyn Bridge originally carried trains, and early designs for the George Washington Bridge were all about trains and tracks.  New buildings are putting emergency generators up top instead of below ground. And, of course, Lower Manhattan used to be served by elevated lines that, when removed, were never replaced as promised by new subways.  Why do straphangers have to tolerate stalemate and dysfunction while drivers pay no congestion fees? Liberate the subway riders from flood-prone tunnels! Mathews HollinsheadSt. PaulThe writer is a representative on the Transportation Advisory Board of the Metropolitan Council of the Twin Cities. The board votes on the regional distribution of about $180 million in federal transportation funds in a two-year cycle.", "id": "5c4df1a93a125f5075c06939", "date": "2019-01-27T18:00:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Global Warming Concerns Rise Among Americans in New Poll", "full_text": " “I’ve never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this,” the lead researcher said. Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. A record number of Americans understand that climate change is real, according to a new survey, and they are increasingly worried about its effects in their lives today. Some 73 percent of Americans polled late last year said that global warming was happening, the report found, a jump of 10 percentage points from 2015 and three points since last March.  The rise in the number of Americans who say global warming is personally important to them was even sharper, jumping nine percentage points since March to 72 percent, another record over the past decade. The survey is the latest in a series from the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication and the George Mason University Center for Climate Change Communication. It was conducted online in November and December by Ipsos, which polled 1,114 American adults. The results suggest that climate change has moved out of the realm of the hypothetical for a wide majority of Americans, said Anthony Leiserowitz, director of the Yale program. “It is something that is activating an emotion in people, and that emotion is worry,” he said. The survey found that 69 percent of Americans were “worried” about warming, an eight-point increase since March. “People are beginning to understand that climate change is here in the United States, here in my state, in my community, affecting the people and places I care about, and now,” Dr. Leiserowitz said. “This isn’t happening in 50 years, 100 years from now.” Asked whether people in the United States were being harmed by global warming “right now,” 48 percent of the respondents agreed, an increase of nine percentage points since March. And 49 percent said they believed they would be personally harmed by global warming, a seven-point jump over the same period. While public opinion on climate issues has fluctuated over the years, many of the recent changes were large enough to fall outside the margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. “I’ve never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this,” Dr. Leiserowitz said. Americans’ growing understanding of global warming is part of a long-term trend, he said. But he attributed the recent increases to a number of extreme weather events with plausible connections to a warming planet, and to the publicity that surrounded two major scientific reports on climate change last year. Those reports, from the United Nations’ scientific panel on climate change and the United States government, laid out grim prospects for the future if action is not taken to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases that warm the planet. The changes in public opinion over the last year were also tied to politics, Dr. Leiserowitz said, and to the efforts of President Trump to deny the scientific evidence of climate change. “Every time he talks about climate change he drives more media attention to the exact issue,” Dr. Leiserowitz said. Political party affiliation is strongly associated with acceptance of the overwhelming scientific consensus on global warming, with Democrats tending to accept it and Republicans tending to reject it. But Mr. Trump’s approach to politics is so divisive, Dr. Leiserowitz said, that when he takes a strong stand on climate change and other issues, “he tends to drive a majority of the country in the opposite direction.” In the poll, a record 62 percent of respondents understood that humans are the main cause of climate change, a four-point rise since March; those attributing it mostly to natural causes were at a record-low 23 percent, a drop of five points over the same period. About two-thirds of those surveyed believed global warming was affecting weather in the United States, with about half saying that warming made last year’s wildfires in the West and Hurricanes Florence and Michael worse. The realm of attribution science — which studies how climate change influences individual weather events — is still evolving, but it has been well established that warming can make wildfires more frequent and hurricanes more destructive. Disasters like these have brought once-abstract concepts home, said Katharine Hayhoe, a climate scientist at Texas Tech University who was not involved in the survey. “Today, nearly everyone can point to a way that they are personally witnessing and are being personally affected by the impacts of a changing climate in the places where they live,” she said. Global warming and its effects are increasingly part of the national discussion, said Sunshine Menezes, an expert in climate communication at the University of Rhode Island and executive director of the Metcalf Institute for Marine and Environmental Reporting. She noted that 41 percent of respondents in the poll said they talked about global warming with family and friends “often” or “occasionally,” and 56 percent said they heard about the topic in the news media at least once a month, a 13 percent increase since 2015. “It’s becoming harder and harder to avoid conversations about climate change,” she said. Though it is impossible to attribute shifts in public opinion like this to any one factor, Dr. Menezes said, “I’m just thrilled that it’s happening.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c47300e3a125f5075c05ac2", "date": "2019-01-22T15:00:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Two New Books Dramatically Capture the Climate Change Crisis", "full_text": " Nonfiction THE UNINHABITABLE EARTH Life After Warming By David Wallace-Wells LOSING EARTH A Climate History By Nathaniel Rich Climate change is the greatest challenge humanity has collectively faced. That challenge is, to put it mildly, practical; but it also poses a problem to the imagination. Our politics, our societies, are arranged around individual and group interests. These interests have to do with class, or ethnicity, or gender, or economics — make your own list. By asserting these interests, we call out to each other so that as a collective we see and hear one another. From that beginning, we construct the three overlapping, interacting R’s of recognition, representation and rights. The problem with climate change, as an existential challenge to humanity, is that the interest-based model of society and politics doesn’t work. Most of the people in whose interest we are demanding action aren’t here. They haven’t been born yet. And because the areas first and most affected by climate change are the poorest regions of earth, we are talking about the least seen, least represented group on our planet. We have to imagine these people into being, and then grant them rights, and then take unprecedented, society-wide action on that basis. The demand climate change makes on us is to feel empathy for the unborn poor of the global south, and change our economies to act on the basis of their needs. That’s something humanity has never done before. Pessimism would be an ethical catastrophe. It leads only to despair, despair to inaction, and inaction to a future world David Attenborough has described as “the collapse of our civilizations and the extinction of much of the natural world.” To avoid the most terrible possible versions of our future, we have to stay positive; it’s the only moral response to this crisis. And there are grounds to do so, as David Wallace-Wells argues in his brilliant new book, “The Uninhabitable Earth: Life After Warming”: “We have all the tools we need, today, to stop it all: a carbon tax and the political apparatus to aggressively phase out dirty energy, a new approach to agricultural practices and a shift away from beef and dairy in the global diet; and public investment in green energy and carbon capture.” Global emissions could be cut by a third if the richest 10 percent of humanity cut their use of energy to the same level as affluent, comfortable Europe. One prospective technique to scrub carbon from the atmosphere would cost $3 trillion a year, a colossal amount — but significantly less than the current level of subsidies paid out globally for fossil fuel, estimated at $5 trillion. Taken all in all, solutions are “obvious” and “available.” The only obstacle to implementing them is political will. This litany of ideas might make “The Uninhabitable Earth” sound upbeat. That would be misleading. At the heart of Wallace-Wells’s book is a remorseless, near-unbearable account of what we are doing to our planet. Climate change is “not just the biggest threat human life on the planet has ever faced but a threat of an entirely different category and scale,” he writes. Even if collective action manages to keep us to 2 degrees Celsius of warming — a target it looks like we are currently on course to miss — we would be facing a world in which “the ice sheets will begin their collapse, global G.D.P. per capita will be cut by 13 percent, 400 million more people will suffer from water scarcity, major cities in the equatorial band of the planet will become unlivable, and even in the northern latitudes heat waves will kill thousands each summer.” But remember, he writes, “this is our best case scenario.” Wallace-Wells takes us through a compendium of the ways in which things could get so much worse, from simple “heat death” through catastrophic storms, droughts, flooding, wildfires, pollution, plague, economic collapse and war. We will see migration on a scale the world has never experienced: United Nations and World Bank estimates of how many people will be forcibly displaced by the middle of this century range from the tens to the hundreds of millions. All of this will affect the world’s poor far more than the world’s rich. The innocent, who have done the least to damage the environment through the consumption of fossil fuels, will suffer more than the guilty. “The Uninhabitable Earth” gives readers’ emotions a thorough workout along that pessimism-to-despair spectrum, before we are brought round to the writer’s “acceptance of responsibility.” I stress the emotional aspect because it is crucial: We are facing a call to action that we are, on the evidence of our behavior so far, likely to ignore, unless we directly feel its urgency. We know this, because that’s what we have been doing. The science of global warming has been settled for 40 years, but we have not just continued to pollute, we have accelerated the rate at which we’ve been doing so. Most of the carbon humans have put into the atmosphere has been emitted in the last three decades. As Wallace-Wells tartly puts it, “We have done as much damage to the fate of the planet and its ability to sustain human life and civilization since Al Gore published his first book on the climate than in all the centuries — all the millenniums — that came before.” This is part of the tragedy. It’s not just that we know what’s happening, it’s that we’ve known for years and done nothing. Nathaniel Rich observes in “Losing Earth: A Recent History” that “nearly every conversation we have in 2019 about climate change was being held in 1979.” His gripping, depressing, revelatory book is an expanded version of a whole-issue article that appeared in The New York Times Magazine last year. It is an account of what went wrong — of how it was that a moment of growing awareness of climate change, and an apparent willingness to act on the knowledge, was allowed to dissipate into stasis and inaction. The story runs from 1979 to 1989. Rich frames his narrative through a central character, Rafe Pomerance, a Friends of the Earth lobbyist who first came across the issue of global warming in a 1979 E.P.A. report. In the ’80s, Congress had several hearings into climate change, which was accepted as an urgent priority even by a figure as conservative and anti-intellectual as Dan Quayle: “The greenhouse effect is an important environmental issue. We need to get on with it.” So why didn’t they? Rich offers a number of reasons. Scientists struggled to put across a clear message with sufficient force, for one. Pomerance looked with envy at the clarity with which the “hole in the ozone layer” was targeted for action by concerned scientists, notwithstanding the fact that, as Rich writes, “there was no hole, and there was no layer.” The climate scientists’ honorable struggles with complexity, probability models and time-lags between cause and effect helped dilute the impact of their message. A 1983 report by the Academy of Sciences, “Changing Climate,” was interpreted as calling for “caution not panic.” Roger Revelle, one of America’s leading scientists and author of a 1957 paper that was one of the first to describe the greenhouse effect, said that “we’re flashing a yellow light but not a red light. It’s not an unmitigated disaster by any means. It’s just a change.” The effect of all this was that the fight against climate change lost momentum at a critical point. The greater part of responsibility for the failure, however, lies with politicians and energy companies. The big fossil fuel firms knew the realities of human-caused climate change but chose to ignore them and to lobby for the right to damage the environment; the Republican Party had factions that were in league with Big Energy, overlapping with other factions in denial about the scientific realities. The Reagan administration fought hard against environmental protections of any kind; the Bush administration made rhetorical gestures but John Sununu, George H.W. Bush’s chief of staff, did not believe in anthropogenic climate change and fought the scientists hard, and ultimately successfully. The first meeting of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 1989 ended without the thing it was convened to achieve, binding targets on global emissions. With American leadership, Rich writes, “warming could have been held to less than 1.5 degrees.” The United States chose to shoot down the agreement. “And with that a decade of excruciating, painful, exhilarating progress turned to air.” More carbon has been emitted into the atmosphere since that 1989 conference than in the preceding history of civilization. Climate change is a tragedy, but Rich makes clear that it is also a crime — a thing that bad people knowingly made worse, for their personal gain. That, I suspect, is one of the many aspects to the climate change battle that posterity will find it hard to believe, and impossible to forgive. John Lanchester is the author, most recently, of “The Wall.” THE UNINHABITABLE EARTH Life After Warming By David Wallace-Wells 310 pp. Tim Duggan Books. $27. LOSING EARTH A Climate History By Nathaniel Rich 204 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.", "id": "5cb053f349f0eacbf1f83439", "date": "2019-04-12T09:00:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "UK Police Arrest More Than 200 in Climate Change Protests", "full_text": " LONDON — Police say they have arrested more than 200 people after climate change protesters blocked major bridges and intersections in central London, bringing traffic to a standstill. The group Extinction Rebellion is organizing several weeks of civil disobedience against what it says is the failure to tackle the causes of climate change. Chief Supt. Colin Wingrove said police were dealing with several demonstrations in central London which had had a significant impact on public transit. He said 55 bus routes had to be shut down and roughly 500,000 people had been affected. \"At this time, ongoing demonstrations are causing serious disruptions to public transport, local businesses and Londoners who wish to go about their daily business,\" he said, adding that police expect the protests to last several weeks. On Monday, demonstrators blocked sites including Waterloo Bridge over the River Thames, the busy Oxford Circus intersection and Parliament Square, and vandalized the headquarters of oil company Shell. After hours of disruption, police ordered the group to confine protests to Marble Arch, beside Hyde Park. Scores of demonstrators who refused to move were arrested — 209 by Tuesday evening — and traffic was slowed in several parts of central London. Many of the arrests were made as protesters tried to block Waterloo Bridge. Extinction Rebellion said protests would continue.", "id": "5cb59cf249f0eacbf1f84785", "date": "2019-04-16T09:12:55+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Thousands of Activists Block London Roads to Demand Action on Climate Change", "full_text": " LONDON — Thousands of environmental activists paralyzed parts of central London on Monday by blocking Marble Arch, Oxford Circus and Waterloo Bridge in a bid to force the government to do more to tackle climate change. Under sunny skies, activists sang songs or held signs that read \"There is no Planet B\" and \"Extinction is Forever\" at some of the capital's most iconic locations. Roadblocks were due to continue night and day at each site and the demonstrators said the protests could last at least a week. The protests are being led by the British climate group Extinction Rebellion and are to involve demonstrations in 33 countries around the world over the coming days. \"I realised that signing petitions and writing letters was not going to be enough. Real action is needed,\" said Diana McCann, 66, a retired wine trader from south London, holding a banner in the middle of a traffic-free road. \"It's like a world war. We have to go on to a war footing.\" Extinction Rebellion, which generated headlines with a semi-nude protest in Britain's parliament earlier this month, has warned its members that some of them could be arrested for taking part in non-violent civil disobedience. The group is demanding the government declare a climate and ecological emergency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025 and create a citizen's assembly of members of the public to lead on decisions to address climate change. At the Shell building near the River Thames, two protesters scaled up scaffolding writing 'Shell Knows!' in red paint on the front of the building and three protesters glued their hands to the revolving doors at the entrance.  Activists said they smashed the glass of a revolving door and caused more than 6,000 pounds ($7,900) worth of damage. The organizers said five people had been arrested for criminal damage. \"EXTINCTION REBELLION\"  At Oxford Circus, protesters unveiled a pink boat that says \"TELL THE TRUTH\" and on Waterloo Bridge demonstrators brought trees, hanging baskets and skate ramps. The protest had a festive atmosphere, with many families in attendance, and a low police presence.  Police later said that, from 1755 GMT for 24 hours, protesters would only be allowed to gather at Marble Arch to prevent \"ongoing serious disruption\". A Reuters photographer said police had begun arresting protesters on Waterloo Bridge. Extinction Rebellion wrote to Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday outlining their demands and asking for face-to-face talks, warning that they will escalate their disruptive actions over the coming weeks unless the government acts. \"Make no mistake, people are already dying,\" the letter states. \"In the majority world, indigenous communities are now on the brink of extinction. This crisis is only going to get worse ... Prime minister, you cannot ignore this crisis any longer. We must act now.\" Organizers of the protests circulated legal advice to anyone planning to attend, requesting they refrain from using drugs and alcohol, and asking them to treat the public with respect. The disruption follows similar action last November when thousands of protesters occupied five central London bridges. Police arrested 85 people that day.  Rowan McLaughlin, 47, a teacher, said this week's protests were more important that the huge pro and anti-Brexit protests in London recently. \"In Europe, out of Europe, it makes no difference if we have no liveable habitat,\" he said. \"We're just going to get bigger and more annoying until the government speaks to us.\"  (Additional reporting by Helena Williams and Kylie MacLellan; Editing by Peter Graff/Mark Heinrich)", "id": "5cb4636649f0eacbf1f84244", "date": "2019-04-15T10:55:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Can Exxon Mobil Protect Mozambique From Climate Change?", "full_text": " The money could make the country more resilient — if it doesn’t just end up causing more conflict and corruption.  Ms. Elston writes about the energy industry in sub-Saharan Africa.  MAPUTO, Mozambique — On Tuesday evening, five days after Cyclone Idai hit central Mozambique and the rains started, thousands of survivors were still stranded, waiting to be rescued from trees or the roofs of houses. On that same evening, far from the floods, I was in an air-conditioned office here in the capital with a group of bankers and oil industry executives, hearing about how rich and happy Mozambicans would soon be. Standard Bank was presenting a new report on the billions of dollars it predicted the Mozambique government will earn from the giant natural gas projects the American oil companies Exxon Mobil and Anadarko plan to start building in the northernmost province of Cabo Delgado this year. We observed a minute of silence for the victims of the flood. What was not observed was the possibility that climate change, driven by the oil and gas industry, had any responsibility for the natural disaster. If the Standard Bank report is right, Mozambique will earn $80 billion to $100 billion over the next 30 years from Exxon’s project alone. Anadarko’s project is estimated to deliver $67 billion. Those are huge sums in a country whose gross domestic product is estimated to be around $14 billion. With that kind of money, the government could hire around 850 doctors and 17,600 teachers, build 3,200 low-cost homes and provide 4,000 hospital beds, per year the bank estimates. It could rebuild Beira, Mozambique’s fourth-largest city, 90 percent of which is estimated to have been damaged or destroyed by Cyclone Idai, and the town of Buzi, home to 200,000 inhabitants, which is totally submerged.  It could also fund a proper climate risk management and resilience program, which would be able to provide better warning of disasters, giving people time to evacuate, and improve rescue and relief efforts. It could finance the building of houses, schools, hospitals and roads better able to withstand storms and flooding. This should be a priority. Mozambique ranks third in Africa as the most exposed to weather-related hazards, including cyclones, droughts and floods — the number and intensity of which are likely to increase. Historically, Mozambique has contributed less to climate change than almost any country on the planet. The gas plants could be argued to have a net emissions benefit, as much of the gas will be liquefied and shipped to China to replace dirtier coal-fired power.  “But being better than coal is a low bar and is not enough for a stable climate,” said Jonathan Gaventa, a senior associate at the sustainable development think tank E3G, who recently moved to Maputo. “Both coal and gas power generation are also beginning to be challenged by low-cost renewable resources.” That doesn’t change the fact that Mozambique needs the money. But will it really improve the lives of ordinary people? I saw one attendee leave the presentation early. “I had this awkward feeling — with thousands of deaths and the emergency, and I am here discussing who gets the biggest piece of the cake,” he told me later. Weak state institutions and low government accountability make Mozambique vulnerable to the “resource curse” — when a dependence on natural-resource revenues leads to higher rates of conflict and corruption and a decline in democracy and economic growth. The conflict has already begun. Since October 2017, Islamist insurgents have been attacking villages, burning houses and decapitating residents in Cabo Delgado. Little is understood about the cause of this violence, but rising poverty and inequality are thought to be at its root. The gas projects will further disrupt the area’s economic balance. The government has cracked down with mass arrests. Human Rights Watch has reported that the “security forces have allegedly arbitrarily detained, ill-treated and summarily executed dozens of people they suspected of belonging” to the insurgency. Since Cyclone Idai hit, the insurgency has dropped from the headlines, aided by the fact that the governor of Cabo Delgado has reportedly ordered journalists to stop covering the conflict. At least two journalists have been detained for doing so. Corruption is also worsening. In 2016 it was revealed that the government had secretly taken out $2 billion in debt, backed with illegal state guarantees, assuming that the money could be repaid with revenue from the gas projects before anyone noticed. According to a United States Federal District Court indictment of three former Mozambican government officials and others, at least $200 million of this money was spent on kickbacks and bribes. Some of the rest was used to buy military patrol boats, at a vastly inflated price, which were supposed to protect Mozambique’s seas and rivers. Not one of these boats has been deployed for the cyclone relief effort. All this, perhaps, gives a better indication of what the gas revenues may be spent on, rather than schools or climate resilience. Some employees at the oil companies have even whispered that perhaps it would be better to leave the gas in the ground. But that won’t happen. Presidential elections will be held later this year. Frelimo, the party that has won every election since independence in 1975, will win again. The gas projects will move forward. Revenues will be used to tighten the party’s grip on power. Corruption and inequality will increase. And long after the flooding from Cyclone Idai has receded, the poorest Mozambicans will still be left stranded. Leigh Elston is a journalist covering the energy industry in sub-Saharan Africa.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9a4aa349f0eacbf105f1e5", "date": "2019-03-26T15:50:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Pictures From Youth Climate Strikes Around the World", "full_text": " From Sydney to Seoul, Cape Town to New York, children skipped school en masse Friday to demand action on climate change. It was a stark display of the alarm of a generation. It was also a glimpse of the anger directed at older people who have not, in the protesters’ view, taken global warming seriously enough.  Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. The student protests, first inspired by a 16-year-old Swedish girl named Greta Thunberg, have spread across Europe in recent months. Thousands have marched in Berlin, Brussels, London and other European capitals on Fridays over the last several months. In the United States, there have been small protests in a number of cities, including New York, where a high school student named Alexandria Villasenor has stood outside the United Nations every week for the last 13 weeks. The largest strikes on Friday seemed to be outside of the United States. The strikes have underscored a significant generation gap in concern about climate change, particularly in a handful of countries. The 20 warmest years on record have all come in the past 22 years, essentially the lifetime of today’s children and young adults. In a recent Pew survey, carried out in 26 countries, a significantly larger share of young people said they worried about the threat of climate change, compared to people over the age of 50, in the United States, France, Australia and the Philippines. In the Pew survey, the generation gap was significant even after statisticians controlled for political affiliations. And in the five years since the global survey began, concern about climate change has swelled overall among Americans, but at a far higher rate among young people. Other surveys have found that younger Republicans to be significantly more concerned about climate change than older members of the party. Mark Margolin, whose daughter organized a youth climate march in Washington last summer, said he understood the urgency of climate change intellectually but didn’t feel the panic the younger generation feels emotionally. Partly, he said, it’s because he has seen the world overcome other global challenges — the fear of a Cold War nuclear confrontation, for instance.  But also, it’s because parents like him are focused on short term. “I don’t have the fear and panic they do,” he said. “Adults are so focused on, ‘Can I pay the bills, am I going to be able to pay my daughter’s college tuition?’” Nadia Nazar, 16, from Baltimore, one of the organizers of the Friday rally in Washington, said young people didn’t see the crisis in the same way.  “My generation is first generation that will be significantly affected,” she said. “I want them to understand they’ve been able to live pretty normal lives. If climate changes continues and gets worse and worse then we won't be able to.” This article was written by Somini Sengupta in New York, with additional reporting by Vicky Xiuzhong Xu in Sydney, Australia; Livia Albeck-Ripka in Melbourne, Australia; Christopher Schuetze in Berlin; Palko Karasz in London; Milan Schreuer in Brussels; Elian Peltier in Paris; Hiroko Tabuchi in New York; and Kendra Pierre-Louis in New York.", "id": "5c8bb07449f0eacbf105d46c", "date": "2019-03-15T14:00:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How the Weather Gets Weaponized in Climate Change Messaging", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — In the summer, when heat waves scorch cities or heavy rains flood the coasts, some climate scientists and environmentalists will point out any plausible connections to global warming, hoping today’s weather will help people understand tomorrow’s danger from climate change. Then winter comes. And, like clockwork, those who want to deny the established science that humans are warming the planet will try to flip the script. In January, when large swaths of the country were gripped by bitter cold, President Trump took to Twitter to mock climate fears: “Wouldn’t be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!” Welcome to the weather wars. As battle lines harden between supporters and opponents of climate action, both are increasingly using bouts of extreme weather as a weapon to try to win people to their side. Weather, after all, is one of the easiest things for people to bond over or gripe about, a staple of small talk and shared experience that can make it a simple but powerful opportunity to discuss global warming. But, as Mr. Trump’s words show, it’s also a framing device that can be easily abused. That raises the stakes for how scientists, who have long tried to distinguish between short-term weather fluctuations and long-term climate shifts, draw out and discuss the links between the two. “Weather, and especially extreme weather, is how most people will experience climate change,” said Susan Joy Hassol, director of the science outreach nonprofit group Climate Communication. “You don’t experience the slow change in average temperature. What you experience are the changes in extreme weather that are brought about. So how we talk about that is really important.” One reason that the weather can offer a potent messaging opportunity may boil down to human psychology. Climate science itself is often complex and abstract. It can be tough to feel, on a gut level, the implications of a chart showing global temperatures ticking up over time, or statistics showing that, on average, 95-degree days or torrential downpours are becoming more frequent. But an unusual weather event that hits today, like a brutal heat wave or heavy storm, is more visceral. Laboratory experiments have found that people’s beliefs about global warming can be swayed by their immediate environment. Put someone in a hot room and they’re more likely to agree the planet is warming. Thirsty people become more alarmed by drought forecasts.  Psychologists have suggested these visceral experiences make it easier for our brains to imagine future states of the world, and therefore make them seem more likely. An exceptionally hot or cold day, other studies have found, can play the same role. Some messengers have long realized that emotion and immediacy can be a powerful force. “Trump is a branding guy,” said David B. Srere, co-chief executive and chief strategy officer at Siegel+Gale, a brand consultancy. “He knows his audience and understands how to tell a clear, simple story. Climate advocates and the scientific community need to get better at understanding their audience and figure out how to tell a simple, repeatable story of their own.” In recent years, some climate scientists have focused on trying to turn flare-ups of severe weather into teachable moments. “This is what global warming looks like,” scientists said during the summer of 2012, a season of widespread droughts, wildfires and extreme heat advisories. And they have become increasingly comfortable drawing those connections.  Back in 2005, after Hurricane Katrina devastated New Orleans, many researchers responded cautiously, saying it was difficult to attribute a single event to global warming. A few noted that rising ocean temperatures could make hurricanes more destructive, on average, in the future. But even that was fairly abstract. Over time, that messaging has shifted.  Partly that’s because, as climate models have improved, scientists have been able to demonstrate more rigorously how rising greenhouse gas emissions have made recent heat waves or droughts more intense or more likely to occur — a budding field known as “extreme weather attribution.” Scientists have also refined their communication strategies, using metaphors like “loaded dice” to talk about how global warming is now making certain severe weather events more likely. “The conversation today couldn’t be more different than it was a decade ago,” said Hunter Cutting, director of strategic communications for Climate Nexus, a nonprofit group focused on climate issues. “Back then, at best, you might get scientists talking about what effects we could see by the year 2100. Now we’re seeing leaders connect the dots in a much more direct way.” That strategy, though, can cut both ways. Deniers of climate change have also sought to use the daily weather to shape perceptions. Senator James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, once brought a snowball to the Senate floor to suggest that global warming wasn’t a problem. When cold spells strike, Mr. Trump will ridicule worries about climate change: Parrying Mr. Trump’s tweets can be a challenge, some supporters of action on climate change concede. He can drive the conversation: One recent survey from Media Matters, a liberal watchdog group, found that broadcast television networks rarely discuss global warming when extreme weather is unfolding. But they do often note the president’s climate comments. Scientists and environmentalists have tried various tactics to push back. They might note that record hot days are becoming far more frequent than record cold days, and that no one expects global warming to eliminate snow altogether. Or they’ll reiterate that the ups and downs of daily weather aren’t the same as broader long-term shifts in the Earth’s climate, and that a single cold day can’t disprove global warming anymore than a single hot day proves it.  Still, a casual observer could be forgiven for feeling a bit of whiplash after that line. After all, haven’t we been hearing that severe weather is a manifestation of climate change when it’s hot out? Marshall Shepherd, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Georgia, isn’t convinced that the president’s tweets about cold weather have staying power. “I see Trump’s tweets as an opportunity to discuss the science,” he said. “To the 9 or 10 percent of the population that are going to be dismissive of climate science no matter what, there’s not much you can say to them. But a lot of people out there are legitimately curious” about how global warming can be real if it’s cold out today. That raises the question of whether the messaging skirmishes around severe weather and climate change are swaying public perceptions, or whether each side is just preaching to those who are already converted. There are some signs opinion is shifting. One recent survey by researchers at Yale and George Mason University found that 69 percent of Americans were “worried” about global warming, an 8-point increase from the previous spring. One possible explanation, the researchers suggested, was the spate of extreme weather disasters in 2018, from wildfires to hurricanes, along with increased efforts by scientists and even local TV weathercasters to put that in a climate context. “For a long time, Americans saw climate change as a distant threat,” said Edward Maibach, a professor at George Mason who works on climate change communication. “But as of our most recent survey, I don’t feel I can say that anymore. We’re seeing a lot of movement on people understanding that climate change is already happening.”  Others are more cautious about interpreting these trends. One 2017 study, for instance, found that people who experience extreme weather are, for a short period, more likely to support climate adaptation measures than they were before. But the effect was modest and diminished over time. It may be that people mentally adjust to unusual weather patterns quickly, updating their idea of what counts as normal. Politics may also play a role: In a polarized country, many Americans are already hardened in their beliefs about global warming. Partly for that reason, David M. Konisky, an associate professor in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University and an author of that 2017 study, said he wonders whether better messaging can dramatically shift opinions. “It might be that climate has become so wrapped up in one’s identity and worldview that it’s not the sort of thing that’s susceptible to better messaging,” he said. Wanyun Shao, an assistant professor of geography at the University of Alabama, lands in the middle. Her research has found that Democrats and Republicans do perceive severe weather differently: Democrats tend to see it as part of a broader pattern of climate change, Republicans as more of an aberration. But, she has also found, a consistent string of shifting weather — year after year of increasing summer heat, for instance — does start to chip away even at conservative doubt about global warming. “For some people, it takes more time,” she said. “But eventually people start trusting their own experiences.”  For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Brad Plumer is a reporter covering climate change, energy policy and other environmental issues for The Times’s climate team.  @bradplumer ", "id": "5c796d3d49f0eacbf105ae7b", "date": "2019-03-01T17:33:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change’s Giant Impact on the Economy: 4 Key Issues", "full_text": " Many of the big economic questions in coming decades will come down to just how extreme the weather will be, and how to value the future versus the present.  Using increasingly sophisticated modeling, researchers are calculating how each tenth of a degree of global warming is likely to play out in economic terms. Their projections carry large bands of uncertainty, because of the vagaries of human behavior and the remaining questions about how quickly the planet will respond to the buildup of greenhouse gases. A government report in November raised the prospect that a warmer planet could mean a big hit to G.D.P. in the coming decades. And on Thursday, some of the world’s most influential economists called for a tax on carbon emissions in the United States, saying climate change demands “immediate national action.” The last four people to lead the Federal Reserve, 15 former leaders of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, and 27 Nobel laureates signed a letter endorsing a gradually rising carbon tax whose proceeds would be distributed to consumers as “carbon dividends.”  The Trump administration has long rejected prescriptions like a carbon tax. But policy debates aside, many of the central economic questions of the decades ahead are, at their core, going to be climate questions. These are some of the big ones. When we think about the economic damage from a hotter planet, it’s important to remember that not all costs are equivalent, even when the dollar values are similar. There is a big difference between costs that are high but manageable versus those that might come with catastrophic events like food shortages and mass refugee crises.  Consider three possible ways that climate change could exact an economic cost:  A once-fertile agricultural area experiences hotter weather and drought, causing its crop yields to decrease.  A road destroyed by flooding because of rising seas and more frequent hurricanes must be rebuilt.  An electrical utility spends hundreds of millions of dollars to build a more efficient power grid because the old one could not withstand extreme weather. The farmland’s yield decline is a permanent loss of the economy’s productive capacity — society is that much poorer, for the indefinite future. It’s worse than what happens in a typical economic downturn. Usually when factories sit idle during a recession, there is a reasonable expectation that they will start cranking again once the economy returns to health. The road rebuilding might be expensive, but at least that money is going to pay people and businesses to do their work. The cost for society over all is that the resources that go to rebuilding the road are not available for something else that might be more valuable. That’s a setback, but it’s not a permanent reduction in economic potential like the less fertile farmland. And in a recession, it might even be a net positive, under the same logic that fiscal stimulus can be beneficial in a downturn. There’s some parallel with military spending. In the 1950s and ’60s, during the Cold War, the United States spent more than 10 percent of G.D.P. on national defense (it’s now below 4 percent). Most of that spending crowded out other forms of economic activity; many houses and cars and washing machines weren’t made because of the resources that instead went to making tanks, bombs and fighter jets. But some of that spending also created long-term benefits for society, like the innovations that led to the internet and to reliable commercial jet aircraft travel. Certain types of efforts to reduce carbon emissions or adapt to climate impacts are likely to generate similar benefits, says Nicholas Stern, chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics. “You couldn’t provide sea defenses at large scale without very heavy investment, but it’s not investment of the kind that you get from the things that breed technological progress,” Mr. Stern said. “The defensive adaptations don’t carry anything like the dynamism that comes from different ways of doing things.” There is more fertile ground in areas like transportation and infrastructure, he said. Electric cars, instead of those with internal combustion engines, would mean less air pollution in cities, for example.  Seeking a baseline to devise environmental regulations, the Obama administration set out to calculate a “social cost of carbon,” the amount of harm each new ton of carbon emissions will cause in decades ahead. At the core of the project were sophisticated efforts to model how a hotter earth will affect thousands of different places. That’s necessary because a low-lying region that already has many hot days a year is likely to face bigger problems, sooner, than a higher-altitude location that currently has a temperate climate. Michael Greenstone, who is now director of the Becker Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago and of the Energy Policy Institute there, as well as a contributor to The Upshot, was part of those efforts.  “We’ve divided the world into 25,000 regions and married that with very precise geographic predictions on how the local climate will change,” Mr. Greenstone said. “Just having the raw computing power to be able to analyze this at a more disaggregated level is a big part of it.” But even once you have an estimate of the cost of a hotter climate in future decades, some seemingly small assumptions can drastically alter the social cost of carbon today. Finance uses something called the discount rate to compare future value with present value. What would the promise of a $1,000 payment 10 years from now be worth to you today? Certainly something less than $1,000 — but how much less would depend on what rate you use. Likewise, the cost of carbon emissions varies greatly depending on how you value the well-being of people in future decades — many not born yet, and who may benefit from technologies and wealth we cannot imagine — versus our well-being today. The magic of compounding means that the exact rate matters a great deal when looking at things far in the future. It’s essentially the inverse of observing that a $1,000 investment that compounds at 3 percent a year will be worth about $4,400 in 50 years, whereas one that grows 7 percent per year will be worth more than $29,000. In the Obama administration’s analysis, using a 5 percent discount rate — which would put comparatively little weight on the well-being of future generations — would imply a social cost of $12 (in 2007 dollars) for emitting one metric ton of carbon dioxide. A metric ton is about what would be released as a car burns 113 gallons of gasoline. A 2.5 percent rate would imply a cost of $62, which adds up to hundreds of billions of dollars a year in society-wide costs at recent rates of emissions. The Obama administration settled on a 3 percent discount rate that put the social cost of carbon at $42 per metric ton. The Trump administration has subsequently revised that estimate to between one dollar and seven dollars. That sharp decrease was achieved in part by measuring only the future economic costs to the United States, not factoring in the rest of the world. And the Trump administration analyzed a discount rate of up to 7 percent — a rate at which even costs far into the future become trivial. Mr. Greenstone favors substantially lower discount rates, based on evidence that financial markets also place high value on investments that protect against risk.  Understood this way, spending today to reduce carbon emissions tomorrow is like insurance against some of the most costly effects of a hotter planet — and part of the debate is over how much that insurance is really worth, given that the biggest benefits are far in the future.  When a government report raises the possibility of a 10 percent hit to G.D.P. as a result of a warming climate, it can be easy to picture everyone’s incomes being reduced by a tenth. In reality there is likely to be enormous variance in the economic impact, depending on where people live and what kind of jobs they have. Low-lying, flood-prone areas are at particularly high risk of becoming unlivable — or at least uninsurable. Certain industries in certain places will be dealt a huge blow, or cease to exist; many ski slopes will turn out to be too warm for regular snow, and the map of global agriculture will shift. Adaptation will probably be easier for the affluent than for the poor. Those who can afford to move to an area with more favorable impacts from a warmer climate presumably will. So the economic implications of climate change include huge shifts in geography, demographics and technology, with each affecting the other. “To look at things in terms of G.D.P. doesn’t really capture what this means to people’s lives,” said William Nordhaus, a Yale economist who pioneered the models on which modern climate economics is based and who won a Nobel for that work. “If you just look at an average of all the things we experience, some in the marketplace and some not in the marketplace, it’s insufficient. The impact is going to be highly diverse.” Despite all these risks, it’s important to remember that humanity tends to be remarkably adaptable. A century ago, most people lived without an automobile, a refrigerator, or the possibility of traveling by airplane. A couple of decades before that, almost no one had indoor plumbing. Changes in how people live, and the technology they use, could both mitigate the impact of climate change and ensure that the costs are less about a pure economic loss and more about rewiring the way civilization works. Most capital investments last only a decade or two to begin with; people are constantly rebuilding roads, buildings and other infrastructure. And a warmer climate could, if it plays out slowly enough, merely shift where that reinvestment happens. But a big risk is that the change happens too quickly. Adaptation that might be manageable over a generation could be impossible — and cause mass suffering or death — if it happens over a few years. Imagine major staple food crops being wiped out for a few consecutive years by drought or other extreme weather. Or a large coastal city wiped out in a single extreme storm. “Whether it’s jobs, consumption patterns or residential patterns, if things are changing so fast that we can’t adapt to them, that will be very, very costly,” Mr. Nordhaus said. “We know we can adapt to slow changes. Rapid changes are the ones that would be most damaging and painful.”  It’s clear that climate change and its ripple effects are likely to be a defining challenge of the 21st-century economy. But there are wide ranges of possible results that vary based on countless assumptions. We should also recognize that the economic backdrop of society is always changing. Projecting what that will mean for ordinary people is not simply a matter of dollars. “I’ve spent the last 20 years trying to communicate it and it’s not easy to process,” Joseph Aldy, who teaches at Harvard’s Kennedy School for Public Policy, said of the connection between climate change and the economy. “It’s really hard to convey something that is long term and gradual until it’s not.” Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of “The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.”  @Neil_Irwin • Facebook ", "id": "5c4052233a125f5075c04df2", "date": "2019-01-17T10:00:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Wasn’t in Trump’s Speech, but It Was Topic A in Congress the Next Day", "full_text": " Climate Fwd: Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. President Trump didn’t mention climate change in his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, but on Wednesday Democrats worked to make sure the topic was front and center in Congress. In two separate and simultaneous House committee hearings on global warming, lawmakers testified that climate change is real, happening now and requires urgent action. It was the first hearing the Energy and Commerce Committee had held on global warming in six years; for the Natural Resources Committee it was the first in more than eight years. In both cases, the rooms were packed with spectators. “It’s a breath of fresh air,” said Representative Joe Neguse, Democrat of Colorado, who called climate change “the defining issue of our time.” Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat, and Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, a Republican, urged Congress to rein in planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. Climate change, they said, has already hurt apple growers, farmers and military installations in North Carolina and commercial fisheries, maple syrup producers and ski resorts in the Northeast. “If you have farmers or fishermen or resort operators or foresters in your communities or your districts, I promise you they are worrying about climate change all the time,” Governor Baker said. Republicans, for the most part, avoided questioning the established science of climate change, focusing primarily on criticizing economic policies put forward by Democrats, like the so-called Green New Deal legislation that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York is set to introduce this week. Some others sought to position themselves as bipartisan on the issue. “Republicans are focused on solutions that prioritize adaptation, innovation and conservation,” said Representative Greg Walden of Oregon. “We want America’s innovators to develop the next technologies that will improve the environment and create jobs here at home.” The question is whether any climate legislation will have a real shot of passing both chambers of Congress. Joel Clement, a senior fellow with the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group, called the hearings “anti-climactic.”  “One gets the sense that this was just the early jockeying for rhetorical space around the most fraught issue of this Congress,” Mr. Clement said.  I’ve experienced a week of wide-ranging weather. In New Jersey on Thursday, I woke up to 0 degrees Fahrenheit, roughly minus 18 Celsius, for my morning run. By Sunday, it was 50 Fahrenheit and I could grill outside in shorts. Now, I’m in Utah for a reporting trip and it’s snowing again. Occasional bitter cold snaps don’t change the fact that the planet is warming over all. NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have announced that 2018 was the fourth-warmest year in the history of accurate measurement, which goes back more than a century. The last five years have been the warmest five years, all part of a trend that is unmistakable, said Gavin A. Schmidt of NASA. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” he told me. “It’s here. It’s now.” The changes are all around us, of course. You can see how your own city fared in 2018 with this feature; about 83 percent of the 3,800 cities measured experienced years that were warmer than normal. Then check out this piece from our colleague Nadja Popovich that shows what’s happening to northern lakes that used to reliably freeze in winter. In other ice news, NASA found a big hole in the Thwaites Glacier in Antarctica about two-thirds as big as Manhattan and 1,000 feet tall. It could lead to more rapid melting of the glacier, which is about the size of Florida. Also, glaciers in the Himalayas are melting, with serious future consequences for those who depend on the current levels of melt for their water. (If you missed it, please feast your eyes on Henry Fountain’s close look at those issues from the dwindling glaciers of Kazakhstan.) In Australia, such torrential rainfall and flooding hit Queensland that residents reported snakes and crocodiles in the streets. In Europe, students have been demonstrating over climate issues. And in other news, Kendra Pierre-Louis wrote about what’s killing off the sea stars. (Spoiler: Climate change is involved.) It’s all part of another busy week at Team Climate. I always get a little lost in the produce aisle during the winter. A global economy means summertime favorites are always available, but, here in the United States, should I really buy those blueberries shipped in from the Southern Hemisphere if I’m trying to be carbon conscious? There’s a lot more to answering this question than just calculating shipping distance. It turns out that how far away my food was grown matters a lot less than how it was grown and whether it traveled by air. There’s usually no sign in the store for these things, but I found a few tricks for picking produce in the winter. First, just eating a more plant-based diet is a great start. Consuming less meat and dairy and reducing food waste are the two most effective ways to reduce your dietary carbon footprint, said Richard Waite, an associate in the food program at the World Resources Institute. (We’ll be covering these topics more in the future.) When buying off-season produce, be skeptical of anything that’s perishable but super fresh, Mr. Waite said. While transportation accounts for only about 6 percent of food-related greenhouse gas emissions globally, not all modes of travel are created equal. Anything that travels by air, like fresh blackberries or asparagus from South America, is going to burn a lot of carbon. Also avoid fruits and vegetables that were likely to have been grown in a heated greenhouse, said Martin Heller, who studies sustainable food systems at the University of Michigan. For example, if you live in New York and are choosing between a fresh tomato grown in wintry Canada versus one trucked in from Mexico or California, go with the one from southern climes. Even having been shipped farther, those southern tomatoes probably have a smaller footprint than the hothouse variety because it takes a lot of energy to keep a greenhouse warm during the cold months. Root vegetables, winter squash and hearty greens are all good winter bets, Dr. Heller said. Carrots, potatoes and squash have long shelf lives, so they can sprout up in summer and still hit stores in the winter. And many greens can thrive under covered, unheated greenhouse conditions, growing fresh well into the colder months without the need for carbon-intensive heating. “Food choice is one of the easiest things for people to change,” said Chris Weber, a scientist at the World Wildlife Fund who has studied food shipping miles and climate impacts. “Because when you compare it to something like your transportation choices or home energy use, food is something you choose every day.” We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com. If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this newsletter gave an incorrect temperature conversion. Zero degrees Fahrenheit is roughly equivalent to minus 18 degrees Celsius, not minus 23 Celsius. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman  John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c5b54433a125f5075c085e4", "date": "2019-02-06T21:28:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘Disgusting to Say, but It’s the Truth’: German Winemakers See Boon in Climate Change", "full_text": " WILTINGEN, Germany — In the bright, cavernous basement of the new Van Volxem vinery building, Christoph Dirksen, one of the Mosel region’s most important wine tasters, was making his rounds sampling from giant stainless-steel tanks. It’s early to make a final judgment on the wines of 2018, even for Mr. Dirksen, a critic for Vinum, an industry publication. But he nodded his head approvingly. Here, and almost everywhere else in the country, German winemakers are celebrating what they believe will prove to be a banner vintage. “It’s not just good,” said Roman Niewodniczanski, one of Germany’s most celebrated vintners and the owner of Van Volxem. “It’s grandiose!” What proved to be the country’s hottest, driest spring and summer on record were disasters for many German farmers, river boat captains and foresters. But they were a blessing for winemakers, leading to a record harvest — Mr. Niewodniczanski estimates his output will be up 20 percent or more on last year — while also imparting a high must weight: the all-important measure of a grape’s sweetness. “Especially for cooler regions, this year is going to be historic,” Mr. Niewodniczanski said, adding: “I’m not sure I’ll see anything like this again.” As exceptional as 2018’s harvest looks, it’s also a sign of how much conditions have changed and are changing for the German wine industry. “We are the big winners from climate change,” said Dirk Würtz, a vintner and wine journalist. “I know it’s disgusting to say, but it’s the truth.” [Read our report about how climate change is transforming the prospects of English wine.] Just as they have elsewhere in Europe, summers in Germany have been steadily getting warmer and longer, leading to grapes that ripen sooner and more reliably. In a northern European country where getting even a white grape variety to ripen during a normal growing season was a challenge as recently as three decades ago, the shifting weather now allows for a greater variety of grapes in more places. “We simply don’t have the problem of getting grapes to ripen anymore,” said Mr. Würtz. Long known for their Riesling and Gewürztraminer, German vintners are now able to make premium red wine from grapes that once they couldn’t even grow. Besides the traditional Spätburgunder, the light German pinot noir, vintners are now planting cabernet sauvignon and syrah, grapes that were all but unknown in Germany last century. 100 Miles Sylt Poland Netherlands Berlin Germany Belgium Czech Republic Nierstein Wiltingen France Austria At St. Antony in Nierstein, a quaint town a little more than 90 miles east of Wiltingen and close to the Rhine, Mr. Würtz is able to make red wine that fetches up to $50 a bottle. Although red wine has been grown in this part of Germany for centuries, it is only recently that it has become good enough to fetch premium prices. A 2016 bottle of Spätburgunder from another vintner in the area, Keller, fetched nearly $800 at auction recently, making it the most expensive modern German red wine. The shifting climate may create not just new wines, but new wine regions. A study of average summer temperatures done by the Potsdam Institute of Climate Impact Research predicts that by 2040, most of Germany will be suitable for wine growing. Thirty years ago, only certain parts of the country’s south had the right conditions. Already, vineyards are popping up around Berlin. Since 2010, wine has been harvested on a 10-hectare site on the island of Sylt, just miles from Germany’s northern border with Denmark. Producing slightly more than a quarter-billion gallons a year, Germany is one of the smallest of Europe’s major wine-producing countries, making about a fifth as much as Italy, the largest (Spain and France are a close second and third). Those figures are likely to change more slowly than the climate does: The expansion of commercial vineyards is tightly regulated by European Union and national laws, and is tied to the current scale of production. So while shifting weather may favor the growth of the German wine sector, laws will keep it much smaller than the European behemoths. “When it comes to wine, you really have a case where the change might be positive,” said Manfred Stock, a scientist at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research. “The northern border has moved,” he said, noting that vintners started to notice a shift in climate as early as the 1980s. But vintners in Germany also see downsides to climate change. Mr. Niewodniczanski says the warmer weather has also made it increasingly difficult to produce the most classic of German wines — the dry, light, fresh Riesling. “We ignored it at first because it was so good for the quality of the wine,” said Prof. Monika Christmann, the head of Geisenheim University, one of three German universities specializing in wine, about the negative effects. “But now it’s becoming a touch too much.” Grapes ripen so well on traditional fields that the resulting wine is either too sweet or too alcoholic, since the level of alcohol is determined by the sugar levels in the grapes. Harvesting the grapes before they are fully ripened does not solve the problem, says Mr. Niewodniczanski, because it affects the flavor. Mr. Niewodniczanski has invested millions into recultivating the Geisberg, steep land (on a slope 55 to 65 degrees) in a narrow valley that is less warm while receiving the same amount of light. It was abandoned in the 1960s as not favorable enough for commercial wine production — now Mr. Niewodniczanski hopes the 12 acres will yield some of his important grapes. “The Geisberg is an example of the importance of climate change,” he said. And while the new summers tend to be hotter and more favorable to grapes, they are also more chaotic, meaning vintners have to deal with freak weather effects. “There is no bad wine any more — the only variability is the amount we harvest,” said Mr. Würtz, who predicts that his vineyard, St. Antony’s, will produce three to four times the amount of wine it produced last year, when his region suffered late frost and an August hailstorm. In total, Germany is predicted to have a harvest increase of 33 percent in 2018, according to European Union figures. As for the 2018 vintage, Mr. Würtz knows there will be a lot of it and that the grapes that produce it will be sweet, but he refuses to say it will actually be the best wine he has ever produced until it has aged. “It’s always a surprise with wine — we won’t know if the year is really good for years.” Follow Christopher F. Schuetze on Twitter: @CFSchuetze.   ", "id": "5c42edc73a125f5075c0543f", "date": "2019-01-19T09:28:35+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Andrew Wheeler, at E.P.A. Confirmation Hearing, Walks a Fine Line on Climate Change", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — When Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, testified before Senators on Wednesday at his confirmation hearing, he found himself walking a tightrope on the issue of climate change. One of the most pointed moments came shortly after he told senators that climate change was not “the greatest crisis” facing our planet. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, then asked Mr. Wheeler, a former coal-industry lobbyist, to rate his level of concern on a scale of one to 10.  After a pause, Mr. Wheeler said, “about eight or nine.” “Really?” Mr. Merkley responded. Senator Merkley and other Democrats on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works took pains to focus in on Mr. Wheeler’s efforts to roll back environmental protections and undo Obama-era regulations designed to fight climate change as indicators that he is unsuitable to lead the E.P.A. President Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler last week to lead the agency but he has been on the job in an acting capacity since his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, resigned in July amid ethics scandals. If Mr. Wheeler is confirmed, a strong likelihood with Republicans holding a 53-to-47 majority in the Senate, he will formally become one of the top soldiers in Mr. Trump’s battle to undo regulations. “There is no more important responsibility than protecting human health and the environment,” Mr. Wheeler told lawmakers. “It is a responsibility I take very seriously.” At the same time, he said, the E.P.A. under his leadership has pushed forward with Mr. Trump’s agenda of deregulation. “Through our deregulatory actions, the Trump Administration has proven that burdensome federal regulations are not necessary to drive environmental progress,” he said. Since July, Mr. Wheeler has replaced of a broad plan to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan, with weaker rules. He has proposed to relax federal protections for streams and wetlands, ease controls of mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants, and eliminate restrictions on new coal plants, a move that would make it easier to bring more coal power online. Under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership the E.P.A. also has proposed reversing Mr. Obama’s clean car standards, one of the most important federal government tools for reducing planet-warming emissions. The plan also challenges the right of California and other states to set their own, more restrictive standards.  Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, chairman of the Environment and Public Works panel, said he expected the committee to vote on Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation in February and, soon after, bring the vote to the Senate floor.  But if the hearing itself is any indication, Mr. Wheeler could be in for a rocky tenure. His opening remarks, given as the government entered its 26th day of a partial shutdown, were nearly drowned out by demonstrators shouting “Shut down Wheeler, not the E.P.A.” The protesters were escorted out of the hearing room by Capitol Police officers as Mr. Wheeler began speaking. “Mr. Wheeler is certainly not the ethically bereft embarrassment that Scott Pruitt proved to be,” Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the top Democrat on the committee, said in his opening remarks. At the same time, he and other lawmakers pressed Mr. Wheeler on the string of regulatory rollbacks as well as his and Mr. Trump’s positions on climate change. “The scientific community has said the threat of climate change is one of the great crises facing our planet,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said. “Do you agree?” Mr. Wheeler said he believed that climate change is occurring, and that humans have an effect. But he told the committee: “I would not call it the greatest crisis, no sir. I would call it a huge issue that has to be addressed globally.” It was after that exchange that he made his remark to Mr. Merkley putting his level of concern at “eight or nine.” Mr. Wheeler was asked several times by Democrats if he would denounce Mr. Trump’s statement that climate change is a “hoax.” Mr. Wheeler responded, “I have not used the hoax word myself.” He said that the planet is warming and that mankind plays a role, making Mr. Wheeler one of the few members of the Trump administration to openly acknowledge the basics of established climate science. But he also said he had not familiarized himself with major scientific reports, including one conducted by 13 United States agencies, that warned rising global emissions are an urgent crisis. He said that the E.P.A. under his leadership was addressing the challenge of rising carbon emissions. Mr. Wheeler repeated the Trump administration’s finding that its plan to revise the Clean Power Plan would still reduce planet-warming emissions by 34 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.  However, a Harvard University study published Tuesday disputed that, finding that the Trump administration’s plan would be worse for the planet than doing nothing at all. The study found that greenhouse gas emissions would “rebound” under the new policy by delaying the retirement of coal-fired power plants. Carbon emissions could rise in 18 states by as much as 8.7 percent by 2030, compared to having no carbon policy at all, the study found. Mr. Wheeler pushed back against those numbers, saying, “That is not what the career people at the agency are telling me.” Later in the hearing he said. “I believe we are moving forward on a proactive basis.” He also addressed recent findings that carbon dioxide emissions have spiked in the United States over the past year. According to the findings, by the research firm Rhodium Group, emissions rose 3.4 percent in 2018. That’s the largest uptick in United States emissions in eight years. Mr. Wheeler has frequently pointed to the fact that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 2.7 percent between 2016 and 2017 as proof that the Trump administration is protecting the environment while deregulating. Yet that dip occurred before Mr. Trump officially took office and it was largely driven by market forces. On Wednesday, Mr. Wheeler said he attributed the recent surge to an exceptionally hot summer and cold winter but said he believed the larger downward trend would continue. “I did not hear anything that makes me think anything different about his track record, which is that his actions at E.P.A. so far have been to undermine an scrap and kill protections,” said Molly Rauch, public health policy director at Moms Clean Air Force. Mr. Wheeler won high praise, though, from Republicans for rolling back the so-called Waters of the United States rule, which many farmers opposed on the grounds that it would result in overly burdensome regulations. Senator Barrasso, the committee chairman, said Mr. Wheeler had done an “outstanding” job leading the E.P.A. over the past six months and praised him for “common sense regulatory proposals.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. An earlier version of this article misstated Molly Rauch’s position with Moms Clean Air Force. She is public health policy director for the group, not a volunteer. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c3f49533a125f5075c04b80", "date": "2019-01-16T15:10:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Chile Wants More Ambitious Action at U.N. Climate Change Conference", "full_text": " SANTIAGO — Chile will urge countries at the United Nations climate change conference in Santiago at the end of the year to adopt more ambitious commitments to deal with global warming, President Sebastian Pinera told reporters on Monday. The U.N. Paris Agreement was not strong enough \"to prevent the world from continuing on a path that could end in tragedy,\" the president told a news conference. \"We will have to move forward so that countries assume more ambitious commitments,\" he said. The summit will be held on Dec. 2-13. Chile, fronting the Pacific Ocean at the southern tip of South America, will also advocate for the protection of Antarctica and the oceans, Pinera said.  (Reporting by Natalia Ramos; Writing by Hugh Bronstein; Editing by Sandra Maler)", "id": "5cabc45749f0eacbf1f81b04", "date": "2019-04-08T21:58:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Striking a Balance Between Fear and Hope on Climate Change", "full_text": " Nonfiction When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. FALTER Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out? By Bill McKibben “Falter,” the environmentalist Bill McKibben’s latest book about threats to the planet, combines fear of bad outcomes with hope for good outcomes. His opening pages set the stage. “This volume is bleak,” he writes, elaborating a few paragraphs later: “I think we’re uniquely ill prepared to cope with the emerging challenges. So far, we’re not coping with them. Still, there is one sense in which I am less grim than in my younger days. This book ends with the conviction that resistance to these dangers is at least possible.” McKibben’s worst fear is summarized in his subtitle: “Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out?” In the first half of the book, he explains the present dangers to civilization, which include the risk of nuclear war and multiple hazards associated with climate change: increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide, threats to food production, rising sea levels, and ocean warming and acidification. While these dangers have been widely discussed, McKibben provides a fresh perspective with surprising examples and an engaging writing style. What could be more familiar, cheap and simple than asphalt roof tiles? But McKibben explains how their manufacture and distribution depend on multiple big systems — undersea and desert oil drilling, limestone and sand mining, fiberglass fabrication, pipelines, refineries, rail lines, truck routes, building supply stores, etc. — all now at increasing risk because of their scale, complexity and susceptibility to disruption. The middle part of the book discusses forces opposing solutions to the problems laid out in the first part — motivated variously by self-interest, grim realities, power, ideals and views about the proper role of government. These forces include Exxon, poverty, inequality, Ayn Rand, the Koch brothers, other very rich Americans, President Trump and Silicon Valley. [ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of April. See the full list.] Some people hope that world problems will be solved by advanced new technologies, especially artificial intelligence and genetic engineering, along with devices geared to expanding our life spans and allowing us to colonize space. Considering each such technology in turn, McKibben explains his skepticism about its hoped-for benefits, and his concerns about potential undesirable side effects. Finally, in the book’s last section, McKibben offers his reasons for hope. Foremost among these are solar panels, which are making cheap renewable energy available around the world, and nonviolent movements, whose successful practitioners against entrenched, well-armed oppositions have included Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr., Earth Day demonstrators and McKibben’s own group, 350.org. I share McKibben’s views about these environmental problems. The practical question we face has to do with tactics: How do we strike a balance between fear and hope, and adjust our tactics to best reach a diverse target audience? As Yogi Berra noted, it’s tough to make predictions, especially about the future. It depends not just on measurable present trends but also on unforeseeable decisions. Five years ago, I would never have predicted the public’s now-widespread recognition of climate change and its human causes (a view not yet shared by enough politicians). McKibben’s book is much more about grounds for fear, which take up some 18 chapters, than about grounds for hope, which take up five. Fear will motivate some people who are currently undecided, and increase the motivation of others already convinced. But in my experience most people need a strong dose of hope to be spurred to action. Why waste effort on a hopeless cause? One group that has learned this lesson is the cancer lobby, which succeeds at raising funds for research by stressing cures that may be just around the corner more than the grim statistics of the disease’s ongoing toll. In fact, there are reasons for hope besides those McKibben discusses. One is the change in policies of some powerful multinational corporations. I can already hear the horrified screams of many of my environmentalist friends as I say this. However, I’ve been on the boards of two of the most effective international environmental organizations, World Wildlife Fund and Conservation International, both of which are heavily involved with big, powerful corporations. I acknowledge that those corporations do some very bad things. But they also do some very good things on a large scale that their power makes them uniquely capable of doing. For example, Walmart has quietly been making efforts to manage its supply chain, its wastes and its truck fleet sustainably — partly, but only partly, because it discovered that it can save money by doing so. You may already have closed your ears because of the bad things you know that even the best big companies also do. Listen, you extraterrestrial visitors from the Andromeda Galaxy, where companies and androids are either purely good or purely bad. Alas, here on Planet Earth, good and bad are mixed together; we don’t have companies that are purely good. If environmentalists refuse to engage with big companies, in order to push them to do more good things and fewer bad ones, we could well end up in McKibben’s worst-case scenario: human extinction. Another reason I feel hopeful has to do with the success of many recent supranational agreements — bilateral agreements between nations, regional agreements and world agreements. Those agreements have addressed difficult issues and required negotiations between nations that hate and fight each other. But agreements have nevertheless succeeded in eliminating rinderpest and smallpox, delineating near-shore economic zones in the oceans, reducing chlorofluorocarbon damage to the ozone layer, setting standards for oil tanker pollution and establishing a framework for seabed mining with shared royalties. Those successes give me hope that we may similarly resolve other difficult international problems, including climate change. My other concern about tactics has to do with the diverse audiences to which environmentalists like McKibben and me must address our books. It’s not enough for us to write for those who are already sympathetic or convinced. We also have to write for those who are skeptical or hostile. If we give up on the many rich, powerful, smart people who are skeptical of environmental threats, again we are doomed to McKibben’s worst-case scenario. To convince a skeptic requires different approaches from those that work to reinforce the convictions of someone already converted. I witnessed this recently when I was with an environmentalist friend. We ran into another friend of mine who is rich, powerful, smart — and politically conservative. I introduced my two friends. My conservative friend asked my environmentalist friend what she did, and she answered, “I run U.C.L.A.’s sustainability program.” My conservative friend replied, “What’s that?,” the skepticism evident in his voice. My environmentalist friend responded in a way that my conservative friend could understand: “That means running things so that your children and grandchildren will be living in a rich and thriving world.” She went on to describe how U.C.L.A., by combining its heating, cooling and power plants, reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and saved money. The skepticism disappeared from my friend’s voice; he was ready to hear more. It will take many different voices to persuade the world’s diverse citizens and corporations to collaborate on solving the world’s biggest problems. McKibben’s voice has been an influential one. My hope is that his new book will strengthen the motivation of those already sympathetic to his views. My fear is that it won’t convince many who remain hostile to them. I hope that my first prediction proves right, and that my second proves wrong. Jared Diamond’s latest book, “Upheaval: Turning Points for Nations in Crisis,” will be published in May. FALTER Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out? By Bill McKibben 291 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $28.  ", "id": "5cb4487749f0eacbf1f841d4", "date": "2019-04-15T09:00:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "One Thing You Can Do: Keep Your Old Gadgets Out of the Trash", "full_text": " Climate Fwd: Also this week: How it felt to climb a 28-story ladder in pursuit of news. Our reporter was, he said, “a mess.”  Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. Technology moves fast. The coolest gadgets today will be obsolete in a few years and we’ll discard them to make room for new ones. Rarely a day goes by that I don’t see flat screens, printers and speakers languishing on the sidewalks of New York City. About half of American states, including New York, have e-waste recycling laws, and around 20 states ban certain types of electronics from landfills. These laws were adopted because many gadgets contain toxic metals — like lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium — that can leak into groundwater and soil, poisoning the ecosystem.  The good news is that there are many environmentally friendly options for parting ways with your electronic devices. First, you could consider trying to give those devices a second life. That applies especially to laptops, tablets and cellphones, which we often discard simply because we want to upgrade. You could try selling them online, giving them to people you know, or to a charity or nonprofit group like Computers With Causes or the World Computer Exchange. (Experts recommend that you wipe hard drives and memory cards clean before giving the devices away.) If the gadgets are broken or too old, you can take them to a certified recycling center where technicians may try to refurbish them for reuse in the United States or abroad. Troy Hanna, a reuse technician at the Lower East Side Ecology Center in New York — a warehouse full of printers, stereos, desktop computers, screens and TV sets — said his goal in life was to put “landfills out of business.” “When I refurbish an old computer and somebody buys it, then I do my job twice,” he said. “First for the environment, and second for that person who can now use a device that would have ended up in the landfill.” The Lower East Side Ecology Center has a wide selection of laptops, flat-screen TVs, record players and speakers for sale. It also rents vintage devices for use as props on movie sets. Many people take their used electronics to retailers like Best Buy and Staples, which then send them to recyclers, although they may charge a small fee to handle large items like TV screens. Electronic devices often contain valuable metals like copper, silver, gold and lithium, too. Their components and circuit boards can be sent to smelters to reclaim those metals, a process that some recyclers call “urban mining.” Using recycled metals is less taxing to the environment than extracting, processing and transporting raw materials. “The plastics, the metals, the glass; the vast majority of the content can get recycled,” said Jason Linnell, executive director of the National Center for Electronics Recycling. “There is very little that needs to go into landfills.”  If you read my piece last week about Americans who grew up with ties to fossil fuels but found careers in renewable energy, you encountered people from across the country. Besides meeting so many fascinating people and working with a terrific photographer, Brandon Thibodeaux, I got to do something amazing for that story: I climbed a wind tower. I wrote about the experience for Times Insider, but let me just tell you the main point here: Tiring and scary! The tower is about 300 feet, or about 28 stories, tall. Before I’d gotten halfway up, my forearms were burning and my legs were shaking. I was, in short, a mess. I’d rest on each of the tower’s four platforms, then keep going. Why do it? There’s my natural inclination to want to, or, as I like to put it: To ride the rides.  Beyond that, experiences like this one help me tell my stories. Jake Thompson, whom I met in Stanton, Tex., told me that he was afraid of heights but looked into jobs in wind energy at his father’s suggestion.  “I looked out at the top,” he said of his first climb on a tower, “and decided that was going to be my career.” I wanted get a feel for what he’d done so that I could best convey it to readers.  The story had wonderful reporting moments, like sitting around a dining room table in Clawson, Utah, with three generations of the Riley family. That included Chris Riley, who grew up in state’s coal country and helped found a company that, by connecting western towns to renewable sources of energy, may hasten coal’s decline. He laid out for his family, for the first time, the full implications of his business model.  Their reaction was sober and supportive. It was a privilege to be with them.  And you know how they say “getting there is half the fun?” Well, no. It was two-hour drive from Salt Lake City to Clawson, with white-knuckle steering through mountain passes in a snowstorm. And after the interview, I had to take the same roads back. It was totally worth it.  We occasionally hear criticism from readers who say that, as climate reporters, we should be reducing our own carbon footprint by avoiding air travel. I get that point. But to me, if you’re going to tell the story in a rich way, with the kind of detail that puts readers right there, you have to go there. And you should climb the ladder. We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com. If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook ", "id": "5ca4df4749f0eacbf1f809e4", "date": "2019-04-03T16:27:24+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Shell Faces Lawsuit From Climate Change Activists Over Fossil Fuels", "full_text": " AMSTERDAM — Environmentalist and human rights groups said on Friday they had started a lawsuit against Royal Dutch Shell in the Netherlands to force the energy firm to cut its reliance on fossil fuels. The groups, including Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth Netherlands, handed over a court summons to Shell at its headquarters in The Hague, demanding it stop extracting oil and gas and cut its greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050. \"Shell spends billions on oil and gas exploration each year, with current plans to invest just 5 percent of its budget in sustainable energy and 95 percent in exploiting fossil fuels,\" the groups said.  They said Shell's plans were \"incompatible with the goal to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming\" under the goals set out in the Paris Agreement to combat climate change. Shell on Friday said the case should not be brought to court as it supports the goals of the 2015 pact and has promised to cut its contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2050. \"We also feel action against climate change is needed right now\", the company said in a statement.  \"We have invested billions of dollars in a range of CO2-light technologies, such as biofuels, hydrogen and wind energy and we want to continue to grow these activities.\"  Activists say this commitment does not go far enough to ensure climate goals can be reached on a global scale. \"With their current strategy, they will keep the world dependent on fossil fuels in the next 40 years,\" Greenpeace campaigner Eefje de Kroon said.  The groups said more than 17,000 Dutch citizens signed up to support their case against Shell. The company has about six weeks to reply to the court summons, after which a judge will decide on further proceedings.  (Reporting by Bart Meijer; Editing by Edmund Blair and Louise Heavens)", "id": "5ca7772d49f0eacbf1f812fb", "date": "2019-04-05T15:40:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "London Climate-Change Street Protest Arrests Reach 290 on Second Day", "full_text": " LONDON — Police have arrested 290 people in two days of protests after climate-change activists blocked some of London's most important junctions including Oxford Circus and Marble Arch, causing traffic chaos. The protests, led by British climate group Extinction Rebellion, brought parts of central London to a standstill again on Tuesday. Extinction Rebellion, which generated headlines with a semi-nude protest in the House of Commons earlier this month, is demanding the government reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025. Police said they expected the demonstrations to continue in coming weeks and had to strike the right balance between allowing the right to peaceful protest while ensuring disruption was kept at a minimum. \"At this time, ongoing demonstrations are causing serious disruptions to public transport, local businesses and Londoners who wish to go about their daily business,\" Chief Superintendent Colin Wingrove said on Tuesday. Activists had been told they must confine any demonstrations to the Marble Arch area, and police were taking action against protesters in other locations. More than a dozen activists had been arrested at Waterloo Bridge near parliament by lunchtime on Tuesday. Others were sitting in the road with linked arms, chanting at the police \"Rebellion! Rebellion!\" and \"We are peaceful! What about you?\" Five arrests were for criminal damage after the Royal Dutch Shell building near the River Thames was targeted on Monday.  Two protesters on Monday climbed up scaffolding, writing \"Shell Knows!\" in red paint on the front of the building and three protesters glued their hands to revolving doors at the entrance. Tents littered the prime shopping area of Oxford Circus on Tuesday morning, with some activists huddled beneath a model boat with the words \"Tell the Truth\" across its side. One placard read: \"Rebel for Life\". Activist Katy Fowler, 39, from Machynlleth in Wales, said reaction from the public had been very positive. \"People have come up to us to thank us emphatically,\" she said. \"There is an awareness and a hunger for something to be done.\"  (Reporting by Paul Sandle, Hannah Mckay and Andrew Marshall and Elisabeth O'Leary; Additional reporting by Bhanu Pratap in Bengaluru; writing by Guy Faulconbridge and Michael Holden; editing by Stephen Addison and Tom Brown)", "id": "5cb58c3449f0eacbf1f84726", "date": "2019-04-16T08:01:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Teach About Climate Change With These 24 New York Times Graphs", "full_text": " What's Going On in This Graph? NOTE: Join us for our free webinar about teaching with graphs from The New York Times. Date: Wednesday, March 20 at 4 p.m. Eastern Time. Register here. _________ Climate change is a gradual process. If you simply measure air temperature, atmospheric carbon dioxide or sea-ice thickness in any given year, you won’t be able to see the full picture of how the planet’s weather patterns are changing. That’s why graphs showing change over time can be such a powerful teaching resource to help students better understand climate trends. In this teaching resource, we have gathered 24 graphs previously published elsewhere in The New York Times that relate to climate change. In the first section, we discuss teaching strategies for using these graphs in the classroom. In the second section, we present a collection of graphs organized by topic: melting ice, rising seas, changing ocean temperature, changing air temperature, rising carbon emissions, impacts on humans, intensifying storms and contradicting attitudes. _________ Each week in “What’s Going On in This Graph?,” we spotlight an engaging graph previously published elsewhere in The Times and pair it with a simple set of questions: What do you notice? What do you wonder? What do you think is going on in this graph? On Wednesdays, teachers from the American Statistical Association provide live facilitation in our comments section to respond to students as they post analyses and consider what story the graph is telling. Then, at the end of the week, we add an end-of-activity “reveal” that shares the original article containing the graph, highlights from the moderation, related statistical concepts and helpful vocabulary. The philosophy behind our approach is to let students begin analyzing graphs with the skills they will most naturally and successfully use — simple noticing and wondering. From there, students can simultaneously build confidence and acquire new conceptual understanding. Over time, as their critical thinking skills develop and their vocabulary grows, students’ analyses become more sophisticated. Below, we detail step-by-step instructions for how to adapt this approach to teaching with graphs to your classroom, and we provide examples from students who have participated in our weekly conversations about climate change-related graphs. In this Stats and Stories podcast, Sharon Hessney, the curator of “What’s Going On in This Graph?,” describes the benefits of the Notice & Wonder approach: “Noticing and wondering has a ‘low floor and a high ceiling.’ Every student can notice something in a graph. There are dots on it; it’s about different countries. As they hear each other’s noticings, they dig deeper. They’ll discover more by comparing and contrasting aspects of the graph and by relating these noticings to the world they know.” So, what can simply noticing look like in action? Here are examples of what students noticed about the above graph about summer temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere. I noticed that the graph is only focusing on the summer temperatures, and not the overall temperatures. The base year has a 29-year difference while the other years have a 10-year difference. The graph does not cover the years 1981-1982. — Deija Robins from California I noticed that as the years go by, the mean or the center of the graph shifts farther to the right. This upward trend seems to be in a stage of rapid acceleration and I wonder if it will continue to increase at the same rate in the coming years. — Brooke Shalam from New York City I noticed that as the years went on the temperatures became hot and extremely hot more frequently. I also noticed that the distribution of the temperatures starts as an approximately symmetric distribution and becomes skewed right over the years. — Chandler B from Georgia Discussing what students notice and wonder, either online or in the classroom, is an important part of the learning process. Ms. Hessney recommends: “We think the best practice for doing ‘What’s Going on in This Graph?’ is first, for students to converse about what they notice and wonder either individually or in small groups, and then to discuss as a whole class. By hearing other people’s ideas, students form more and deeper stories from the graph.” Here are examples of student wonderings about the same graph. I wonder if the progressing extreme heat will affect our animals and even, human beings. Will this affect us in dangerous ways? For example, will we die from heat stroke, Will the water sources dry up and the animals die of thirst? These are my wonders for this graph. — Ruby Casey from New Hampshire We wonder what “extremely cold,” “normal” etc. means in terms of temperatures. We also wondered if there were outliers at all. It seems like there were outliers on the hot side and then outliers on the cold side. We wonder if something similar is happening in the southern hemisphere and if this type of trend happens in the winter, too. We also wonder if these are actual temperatures and where was the data gathered — cities, country, novice weather people as opposed to trained weather people We think that global warming is being illustrated by this graph. — @mathteacher24 from Bethlehem, Pa. An essential part of our approach to teaching with graphs is that students don’t do their thinking in a vacuum. On The Learning Network, moderators from the American Statistical Association provide students with feedback on their comments. Plus, students get to read what others have to say, and have a chance to reply as well — whether they are in the same classroom or on the other side of the globe. In the screen shot below, you can see a student, Madison from New Jersey, responding to Christian in Pittsburgh. One of the questions Madison asks is, “Are these the effects of naturally increasing temperatures, or the doing of man made emissions?” Just like photographs, graphs tell stories. After students have “noticed and wondered,” we ask them: What’s going on in this graph? What story can it tell? Here are some examples of the comments students made about the above graph about winter temperatures. This graph shows that although the average winter temperature in the US is not increasing at a steady rate, overall the temperatures are getting warmer with time. This is in favour of the discussion about climate change causing global warming. — Tatyana from New Zealand This graph depicts how the winter temperatures from the 1900s differ from the 2000s. And how the temperatures are gradually getting warmer. This could be happening due to global warming or maybe how they say the sun is gradually getting closer and closer to our planet. — Matthew Laing from Philadelphia From brief observations, I can conclude that this is a graph depicting the differences between the average winter temperature in 1900 and the present average winter temperature at the time. Because of this, I’m curious if an increase in air pollution, carbon dioxide, and deforestation is responsible for the overall increase of winter temperatures on Earth. This graph could capture how pollution and an increase of carbon dioxide within the atmosphere because the gas prevents small bits of heat from the sun from escaping the Earth’s atmosphere, forcing it to bounce back to the Earth’s surface as more thermal energy from the sun reaches our planet. A similar phenomenon has been present on Venus, which, due to the gases within Venus’ atmosphere capturing the majority of thermal energy from the sun, has made Venus the hottest planet in the Solar System. — Ben S. from Allen Tex. This past summer Robert Lochel, a math teacher in the Hatboro-Horsham School District, mentioned to us that he always asked students to write a catchy headline after they were done noticing and wondering. We liked the idea so much, we added it to our weekly protocol. Here are a few examples of students’ headlines about the graph above. • “You Thought This Winter Was Cold? Check This Graph,” by Nathan of Virginia • “Is Earth on the Hot Seat?,” by Kero K. and Jon I. from Hampton High School • “Dreaming of a Green Christmas,” by Isaac from Hampton High School • “Doomsday Deviation,” by Michael, Harper, Joseph and Owen from Hampton High School _________ The graph above illustrates how rising temperatures could affect ice cover across 1.4 million lakes in the Northern Hemisphere. It is one of scores of graphs related to climate change that The Times has published in the last few years. We hope that by collecting a selection of these graphs in one place, organized by topic and accompanied by links to the original Times articles, we are providing teachers with a valuable resource for teaching about climate trends. With any one of these graphs, you can have students notice, wonder and do the sequence of strategies recommended above. And here is one more teaching idea: Choose a handful of these graphs and ask students to select the one they think is most valuable for teaching the general public about Earth’s changing climate. Then they can explain why they selected that graph. We Charted Arctic Sea Ice for Nearly Every Day Since 1979. You’ll See a Trend. | Arctic sea ice has been in a steep decline since scientists started using satellites to measure it 40 years ago. And the 10 lowest ice extents have all been recorded since 2007. As Greenland Melts, Where’s the Water Going? | Each year, Greenland loses 270 billion tons of ice as the planet warms. New research shows that some of the water may be trapped in the ice sheet, which could change how scientists think about global sea levels. In the Arctic, the Old Ice Is Disappearing | In the winter of 2018, the Arctic Ocean hit a record low for ice older than five years. Scientists say that summers in the Arctic may be ice-free in the future. What Could Disappear | These 2012 maps show coastal and low-lying areas that would be permanently flooded, without engineered protection, with a five-foot sea level rise over the current level. Percentages are the portion of dry, habitable land within the city limits of places listed that would be permanently submerged. Ocean Warming Is Accelerating Faster Than Thought, New Research Finds | An analysis concluded that Earth’s oceans are heating up 40 percent faster on average than a United Nations panel estimated five years ago, a finding with dire implications for climate change. Nights Are Warming Faster Than Days. Here’s Why That’s Dangerous. | Nationwide, summer evening temperatures have risen at nearly twice the rate of daytime temperatures, putting older people, the sick, and young children at greater risk during heat waves. It’s Official: 2018 Was the Fourth-Warmest Year on Record | The Earth’s temperature in 2018 was more than one degree Celsius, or 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, above the average temperature of the late 19th century, when humans started pumping large amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. How Much Hotter Is Your Hometown Than When You Were Born? | As the world warms because of human-induced climate change, most of us can expect to see more days when temperatures hit 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees Celsius) or higher. See how your hometown has changed so far and how much hotter it may get. Of 21 Winter Olympic Cities, Many May Soon Be Too Warm to Host the Games | Because of climate change, by midcentury many prior Winter Games locations may be too warm to ever host the Olympics again. Here’s How Far the World Is From Meeting Its Climate Goals | This 2017 graph shows how two years after countries signed a landmark climate agreement in Paris, the world remains far off course from preventing drastic global warming in the decades ahead. U.S. Carbon Emissions Surged in 2018 Even as Coal Plants Closed | America’s carbon dioxide emissions rose by 3.4 percent in 2018, the biggest increase in eight years. Where Americans (Mostly) Agree on Climate Change Policies, in Five Maps | Americans are politically divided over climate change, but there’s broader consensus around some of the solutions. The U.S. Is the Biggest Carbon Polluter in History. It Just Walked Away From the Paris Climate Deal. | The United States, with its love of big cars, big houses and blasting air-conditioners, has contributed more than any other country to the atmospheric carbon dioxide that is scorching the planet. How Does Your State Make Electricity? | Over all, fossil fuels still dominate electricity generation in the United States. But the shift from coal to natural gas has helped to lower carbon dioxide emissions and other pollution. Migrants Are on the Rise Around the World, and Myths About Them Are Shaping Attitudes | Rising average temperatures are already pushing people from their homes in many middle-income countries, according to research by Cristina Cattaneo and Giovanni Peri, increasing migration from rural areas to urban centers and across borders to other nations. As warming continues in the coming decades, it will probably push people from agricultural areas to urban areas and from the global South to the richer global North. A Rise in Murder? Let’s Talk About the Weather | The correlation between heat and crime suggests the need for more research on shootings in American cities. As Climate Changes, Southern States Will Suffer More Than Others | As the United States confronts global warming in the decades ahead, not all states will suffer equally. Maine may benefit from milder winters. Florida, by contrast, could face major losses, as deadly heat waves flare up in the summer and rising sea levels eat away at valuable coastal properties. The Cost of Hurricane Harvey: Only One Recent Storm Comes Close | The graph above, from Sept. 1, 2017, compares more than $200 billion natural disasters since 1980. Note that it does not include major storms that occurred after Hurricane Harvey, including Hurricanes Maria, Irma, Florence and Michael. The Story of 2018 Was Climate Change | David Leonhardt writes: “From year to year, the number of serious hurricanes fluctuates. But the last few decades show a clear and disturbing trend.” How Americans Think About Climate Change, in Six Maps | This 2017 article reports that Americans overwhelmingly believe global warming is happening and that carbon emissions should be scaled back. But fewer are sure that the changes will harm them personally. Students studying climate change might have other data sets in mind they would like to see graphed. For example, perhaps they are interested in retreating glaciers or regional changes in precipitation. You could have students research topics that interest them, find relevant quantitative data and create their own graphs. We would love to hear about any climate change-related graphs your students create — or about topics you would like to see The Times illustrate in graphs. Post in our comments, or write to us at LNFeedback@nytimes.com — and if your students make some great graphs, be sure to send us photos too since we would love to show them off on our site and on social media. _________ Sharon Hessney helped to curate this selection of climate change-related graphs.", "id": "5c77fcd949f0eacbf105aaa2", "date": "2019-02-28T15:21:35+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Wallace Broecker, 87, Dies; Sounded Early Warning on Climate Change", "full_text": " Dr. Wallace S. Broecker, one of the first scientists to sound the alarm about climate change and the researcher who popularized the term “global warming,” died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87. His death, at a hospital, was announced by Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, his academic home for 67 years. It said the cause was congestive heart failure. Dr. Broecker, a geologist by training whose questing mind led him to rove from field to field, had an uncanny ability to draw a comprehensive understanding of the Earth’s climate system from research into the oceans, the atmosphere, the planet’s ice and more. He gave early warning of a planetary crisis if humans continued to spew carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. He published a landmark scientific paper in 1975 that asked in its title, “Climatic Change: Are We on the Brink of a Pronounced Global Warming?” A blunt man, Dr. Broecker (pronounced “broker”) had a knack for phrasemaking. He was fond of saying, “The climate system is an angry beast and we are poking it with sticks.” He meant that the climate is unpredictable, sensitive to small changes and susceptible to major shifts with startling speed. He also coined the term “the global conveyor” for the important ocean currents that circulate warm water around the globe; that phrase, too, remains in use today. Dr. Broecker pioneered techniques using carbon isotopes and other trace elements to map the world’s ocean currents; those techniques made their way into an expanding body of knowledge in many other fields, even archaeology. He suggested that radical climate swings could result in regional periods of cold weather if those warmth-bringing streams of ocean water were disrupted, as occurred in Europe with the most recent ice age, about 12,000 years ago. Hollywood distorted that theory into horror fare in the 2004 film “The Day After Tomorrow,” about a sudden, catastrophic onslaught of ice age conditions. He sought not only to warn the world about the risks of climate change, but also to propose solutions. He argued to colleagues and to Congress that the world had to reduce its use of fossil fuels. Pessimism about whether people would act to limit carbon dioxide emissions in time led him to search for ways to remove them from the atmosphere, and even to change the degree to which the atmosphere reflects light, through a kind of global dimmer switch to counteract the warming trend. Dr. Broecker is best known for his “Climatic Change” paper in 1975. In it he noted that while the global climate had been experiencing a natural cycle of cooling, he predicted that planetary temperatures would soon begin to rise because of the accumulation of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. In 1976, they obligingly did, and the warming curve has correlated well with his projections. He based the predictions, however, on a simplified model of the climate system, and he later realized, as he wrote in 2017, that some of his analysis had been flawed. He would later write a follow-up paper stating that, as accurate as his prediction turned out to be, “It was dumb luck.” Still, the link between carbon dioxide and climate change, first suggested by researchers in the 19th century, has only grown more clear. NASA announced this month that 2018 was the fourth-warmest year since the advent of accurate record-keeping some 140 years ago. The five warmest years in recorded history have been the last five, and 18 of the 19 warmest years have occurred since 2001. Dr. Broecker could be combative and even curmudgeonly, recalled Michael E. Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University. “He was quite opinionated and often fought hard to make his scientific interpretations the prevailing doctrine,” he said. Calling him a “true Renaissance man” who had generated discoveries in a wide range of fields, Dr. Mann said Dr. Broecker had “held his competitors to a high standard by expressing honest skepticism and demanding convincing arguments and evidence.” Wallace Smith Broecker was born on Nov. 29, 1931, and grew up in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park, Ill., the second of five children of Wallace and Edith (Smith) Broecker. His father ran a gas station; his mother was a homemaker. His parents, evangelical Christians, sent Wallace to Wheaton College, a Christian liberal arts school in Illinois, where he met Grace Carder, whom he married in 1952. She died in 2007. They had six children, five of whom survive him: Sandra Broecker, Cynthia Kennedy, Kathleen Wilson, Scott Broecker and Cheryl Keyes. He is also survived by two children from another relationship, Milena and Tobias Hoegsberg. In 2009, Dr. Broecker married Elizabeth Clark, who had worked with him in his laboratory; she also survives him, as do his sisters Judith Redekop and Bonnie Chapin, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. At Wheaton, he planned to become an actuary, but a friend helped him land an internship at what became the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia. It was there that he fell in love with scientific instruments and carbon dating, the technique that helps researchers determine the ages of materials that are tens of thousands of years old. He decided to transfer to Columbia from Wheaton. He went on to earn a bachelor’s degree in physics and a Ph.D. in geology there and to join Columbia’s faculty in 1959. Throughout his career, Dr. Broecker worked through problems with a pencil and paper, avoiding computers. He was dyslexic, and had staffers retype his manuscripts and emails, said Ms. Clark, who helped edit his papers. “He said he needed the pencil and paper because that’s how he thought,” she said in an interview. The author of more than 500 research papers and some 17 books, Dr. Broecker received many science awards, including the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in 1996. Prize money was often attached to the honors, his daughter Ms. Kennedy said, but he plowed most of it back into his research. “Money was never important to my father,” she said. She said that his travels for research had kept him away from home much of the time, but that when he was home he had kept things lively, with treasure hunts in the house and croquet in the yard. Though he was often referred to as the “grandfather of climate science” or the “father of global warming,” Dr. Broecker disdained such titles, which he said were better deserved by others. He even offered $200 to anyone who could find the phrase “global warming” used before he published his 1975 paper. Some occurrences were found, but his usage had made the phrase stick. Still, he wrote, “It is my hope that the title ‘Father of Global Warming’ does not appear on my tombstone.” In any case, there will be no tombstone, Ms. Clark said. Instead, she intends to comply with his wishes that on her next ocean research trip, a colleague, Dr. Sidney R. Hemming, scatter his ashes at sea.", "id": "5c6ca2d93a125f5075c0a806", "date": "2019-02-20T00:42:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Despite What Trump Says, Climate Change Threatens Our National Security", "full_text": " The president is trying to subvert the science that informs the intelligence community. General Allen retired from the Marine Corps in 2013 after nearly four decades of service. Mr. Victor is a professor of international relations at the University of California, San Diego. Once again, the Trump White House is publicly crossing swords with the intelligence community in ways that are likely to harm American security. The latest salvo is an effort taking shape over the next few weeks to “red team” the science of climate change — in effect, to challenge it and investigate it for uncertainties. The backdrop for the scheme is President Trump publicly questioning the accuracy of the nation’s most extensive and scientifically robust assessment by 13 federal agencies that showed how stronger storms, higher sea levels, more heat waves and sundry other effects of climate change will harm the nation. This same science has also informed a new intelligence community report that identifies climate change as a significant threat to national security. Impacts typical of a changing climate are already buffeting the front lines of America’s military presence. Some are palpable and easily trace back to warming. For example, in Alaska, erosion from warmer weather is undermining the foundations at some radar facilities that are critical early-warning networks for attacks on the United States. They are among dozens of facilities the Pentagon has tagged as at risk from recurrent flooding, drought, desertification, wildfires or thawing permafrost resulting from shifts in climate that are happening much faster than expected. To some degree, better engineering — although often at substantially higher cost — will help reduce these impacts. Much more insidious are the effects of warming on the social fabric and confidence in government in countries whose stability matters to American security. As commander of United States forces in Afghanistan and other locations, one of us (General Allen) dealt regularly with insurgencies and failed states that created direct dangers to American security. In Afghanistan, for example, the failure of the state is linked in part to weaker agriculture (the main source of income in most communities).  What makes climate change such a pernicious problem is that it increases the odds of those adverse conditions arising — especially in places where government already does not function well. When the stress of climate change multiplies, so will the problems the military must handle. While it’s always a good idea to look at uncertainties in any scientific assessment, the White House red-teaming is poised to investigate the wrong questions. The scheme, anchored in the climate-denier community, is designed to generate talking points for a president who is skeptical of climate science and thus will focus on whether climate change is happening at all and whether a little warming is all bad news. A useful red team would investigate uncertainties in the opposite way, by focusing on the evidence that the climate is changing much more rapidly than originally expected. Getting serious about the odds that global warming could be much more harmful than expected could amplify previous assessments for the nation’s security. Uncertainty is endemic to climate science because the exact level of future changes in climate are hard to pin down. The pathways that lead from warming to tangible harm to the nation’s coastlines, crops, military and overseas interests are highly complex. Some of the best scientific studies on these impacts — including last fall’s assessment by 13 federal agencies — have begun to look at how uncertainty and complexity interact in ways that make climate dangers look much scarier. Good intelligence estimates must grapple more fully with this as well, but doing that properly will be a lot harder now that the White House is instructing the rest of the government to avoid serious analysis of climate dangers.  This week, 58 former military and intelligence officials sent a letter to the president warning him that “imposing a political test on reports issued by the science agencies, and forcing a blind spot onto the national security assessments that depend on them, will erode our national security.” This is hardly the only place where the Trump White House is visibly undermining its own intelligence community. Recent examples abound — North Korea, Russia and Iran, among many other locations — of the White House taking issue with its own appointed intelligence officials on vital national security issues. With that as precedent, the White House warning shot across the intelligence agencies on climate change is hardly surprising yet still alarming. Ignoring the anti-science noise in the White House is dangerous for the nation. Climate change is arguably America’s and its allies’ longest-term security crisis. But the immediate national security crisis is a White House browbeating our scientific and intelligence community into its political line or seeking to tamper with the science and intelligence itself. John R. Allen, president of the Brookings Institution, is a retired four-star Marine Corps general who served as special presidential envoy to the Global Coalition to Counter ISIL (now ISIS) from 2014 to 2015. David G. Victor is a professor at the School of Global Policy and Strategy, University of California at San Diego, and is a co-chairman of the Cross-Brookings Initiative on Energy and Climate.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c81789d49f0eacbf105be96", "date": "2019-03-07T20:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Racing the Clock, and Climate Change", "full_text": " A beloved Dutch speedskating race survives by relocating to Austria, where thick ice still beckons. For now. Photographs by Pete Kiehart WEISSENSEE, Austria — A thousand Dutch skaters congregated before dawn on the frozen surface of the Weissensee, the long, slender lake that gives this small Austrian mountain town its name. The sky was dark, and the headlamps of the shivering skaters cast a spiritual glow onto the charcoal ice. They had been warned not to remove their goggles, lest their eyeballs frost over in the wind. The conditions, by any reasonable standard, were brutal. But the skaters were in heaven. “The most beautiful thing in life is skating on a floor of black ice, in the cold, hearing the sounds of ice skating in nature,” said Wim Wiltenburg, 53, a banker visiting from Tilburg. “It’s better than sex.” Speedskating on natural ice is a beloved Dutch national pastime. The tradition is alive and well — just not necessarily in the Netherlands, where climate change now yields winters too warm for the waterways to freeze over with any consistency. The consequences of this have been felt most profoundly in a historical event called the Elfstedentocht, a one-day, long-distance speedskating tour through 11 cities of the Friesland province. It maintains a sacred place in Dutch sports culture. The race, whose name translates to “11 cities tour,” has been held casually since the late 1700s and more officially since 1909. Covering a continuous route of about 200 kilometers — about 124 miles — the Elfstedentocht takes place only when the lakes and canals of Friesland develop 15 centimeters (almost six inches) or more of ice. That was once a relatively common phenomenon; lately, it has been exceedingly rare. From its inception in 1909 to 1963, the Elfstedentocht was held 12 times. Since then, there have been three, most recently in 1997. Some in Friesland wonder if it will ever be held there again. This week, the original Elfstedentocht is passing a worrisome milestone: Friday will be the 8,070th day since the previous edition, the longest period without a race since its inception. But the Dutch refuse to let its spirit die. So every winter, close to 6,000 people from the Netherlands make a pilgrimage to Weissensee (population 753). Climate migrants of the sports world, they seek the cold and the ice of this town’s enormous, asparagus-shaped lake. Known as the Alternative Elfstedentocht, the relocated race has been embraced by the Dutch as the rare chance to skate the same, staggering 200-kilometer distance (roughly the driving distance between Los Angeles and San Diego) their ancestors did. “In the past, our canals and lakes were always frozen,” said Toine Doreleijers, one of the Alternative Elfstedentocht’s organizers. “That’s not the case anymore, but it’s still in our blood.” Climate scientists in the Netherlands point to the disappearing Elfstedentocht as a vivid example of the grave trends they see in their work. According to Hans Visser, a statistician from the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency, the annual chance of an Elfstedentocht dropped from 26 percent in 1950 to 6.7 percent in 2017 (or, in terms of average return periods, once in four years in 1950 to once in 15 years in 2017). Geert Jan van Oldenborgh, a climate researcher at the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute, said if the earth’s average temperature increased more than two degrees Celsius from preindustrial levels — a popularly referenced threshold for severe effects of climate change — the Elfstedentocht would most likely cease to occur in the Netherlands at all. (There would, of course, be a host of far more catastrophic changes to the environment.) “The chances of an 11 Cities Tour decrease every year because of global warming,” van Oldenborgh said. “That should be a good incentive for the Dutch to do something about it.” In the meantime, the Alternative Elfstedentocht in Austria tries to address the Dutch yearning for ice. The 12.5-kilometer course last month folded back and forth along the lake, a setup that, from afar, resembled a busy ant farm, with packs of skaters zooming along the mazy track. Participants skated 16 laps, keeping one eye at all times on the ice, which showed long, hazardous cracks, like ancient marble. They hydrated and hoarded calories, grabbing cold raisin bread again and again from trackside tables. They ranged in age from 14 to 77. Everyone started the tour in the dark, and the last skaters finished in the dark, 11 hours later. Icicles formed on facial hair. Injuries abounded. Marieke Lassche, 59, finished in 9 hours 53 minutes 11 seconds. A teacher from Ommen in the eastern Netherlands, she skated the actual Elfstedentocht in 1986, when she was 26. She said she appreciated the pristine setting of Weissensee, but dreamed of skating through the cacophony of Friesland one more time. “You start in Leeuwarden when it’s dark, but there are cars with their headlights on and people and music and all these bands,” Lassche said about that experience 33 years ago. “You come into the city, and everybody’s shouting, ‘Go on, you can do it!’ You get wings.” For some, the Alternative Elfstedentocht — the main distance event is run four times over a two-week period each winter, with shorter trials and professional races scattered between — has been a way to train for the actual Elfstedentocht, should it ever occur. Klasina Seinstra, 50, has been traveling to Weissensee for 27 years, first as a skater and now as a coach. She clocked the fastest women’s time on the Austrian lake in 1995, 1996 and 1997 before becoming the first woman across the finish line at the 1997 Elfstedentocht, the last held in the Netherlands. Thinking about that day now still gives her goose bumps. “I get tears in my eyes,” she said. “I never had that feeling again.” Others are desperate to feel it even once.  Erben Wennemars, a professional speedskater, has become obsessed with one day competing in the original Elfstedentocht. At 43, he has largely retired from skating but has continued competing a few times a year to maintain his eligibility for the professional portion of the race. Wennemars said the purity of the Elfstedentocht (it has only a few local sponsors, and the winner receives no prize money) was an antidote to the overly “programmed” world of modern elite sports. “I’m an eight-time world champion, I won two Olympic medals, but I would throw it all away for the Elfstedentocht,” he said. “There are a lot of people who have gold medals. But if you win the Elfstedentocht, you’ll be known for the rest of your life.” The aura of the original race — which features a competitive event and a recreational tour for amateurs — has only grown in its absence. For now, the 10 volunteer board members of the Royal Organization for the Eleven Frisian Cities, which oversees the race, prepare extensively for it all year, every year, as if it will happen. They have no choice but to be ready: The current preparations are based on estimates of 30,000 skaters, almost 1.5 million spectators along the route and 20 million more on television. “There will be a year that makes up for all the years we wait,” Sytse Prins, a board member, said. Wiebe Wieling, the board chairman, said it was too early to consider scaling back the yearly preparations. He noted that even with global warming, there could be bursts of extreme cold that sufficiently freeze the canals. “But let’s say if in the next 10 years we still don’t have an edition, you will hear a different discussion,” he said. Dutch skaters, naturally, have grown impatient. The concept of an Alternative Elfstedentocht was born in the 1970s, when a Dutch businessman named Aart Koopmans began looking for sites around the world that featured consistently frozen water. The legend goes that he and a co-organizer, Leo van Hees, learned about Weissensee after seeing Timothy Dalton drive an Aston Martin on the surface of the lake in the 1987 James Bond film, “The Living Daylights.” Two years later, they organized their first speedskating race on that same surface. Weissensee now has become a regular stop for many Dutch speedskaters. Last year, the airline Transavia created a direct flight route from Rotterdam to Klagenfurt, Austria, to help accommodate the pilgrims. During last month’s event, Dutch national flags were stretched across balconies, and Dutch visitors zipped along snow-covered roads on their bicycles. After the second running last month, hundreds of the skaters, some cheekily dressed in traditional Austrian clothes, packed into a lakeside tent for the Blister Ball, a raucous party that featured floor-swaying singalongs, plumes of fake snow and at least four people dancing with newly broken arms. “For two weeks, Weissensee becomes Dutch,” said Gerhard Koch, 48, the mayor of the town. Amid all the skating and revelry, the most important person on site might have been Norbert Jank, a 72-year-old Weissensee resident who has served as the “ice master” for all 31 editions of the Alternative Elfstedentocht. He monitors ice conditions and prepares the course with an arsenal of homemade tools and retrofitted vehicles. “Thank you for the good ice!” someone shouted to him in Dutch-accented German one afternoon last month. Jank waved back and smiled. The ice was indeed good. And yet it was not as good as it has been, he said. It was only half as thick as it was when the Dutch first started coming. Back then, he said, they always skated around the entire lake, but lately only half the lake has had ice thick enough for skating. And Jank, who does not wear a cap or gloves unless the temperature reaches minus 25 Celsius, has simply noticed more warm days each winter. It is all rather worrying, he said. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the day this week when the original Elfstedentocht will reach the longest period without a race since its inception. It is Friday, not Thursday. Andrew Keh is an international correspondent, covering sports from Berlin. He has previously covered Major League Baseball and the N.B.A. and has reported from the World Cup and the Olympics.  @andrewkeh ", "id": "5c5c01b43a125f5075c08755", "date": "2019-02-07T10:00:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Fight to Tame a Swelling River With Dams That May Be Outmatched by Climate Change", "full_text": " Along the Missouri, John Remus controls a network of dams that dictates the fate of millions. ‘It was not designed to handle this.’ The Gavins Point Dam in South Dakota was at the heart of a difficult decision during recent flooding along the Missouri River.CreditCreditJenn Ackerman and Tim Gruber for The New York Times Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. There were no good choices for John Remus, yet he had to choose. Should he try to hold back the surging Missouri River but risk destroying a major dam, potentially releasing a 45-foot wall of water? Or should he relieve the pressure by opening the spillway, purposely adding to the flooding of towns, homes and farmland for hundreds of miles. Mr. Remus controls an extraordinary machine — the dams built decades ago to tame a river system that drains parts of 10 states and two Canadian provinces. But it was designed for a different era, a time before climate change and the extreme weather it can bring.  “It’s human nature to think we are masters of our environment, the lords of creation,” said Mr. Remus, who works for the United States Army Corps of Engineers. But there are limits, he said. And the storm last week that caused him so much trouble was beyond what his network of dams can control. “It was not designed to handle this,” he said. The storm, the “bomb cyclone” that struck the upper Midwest, dumped its rain onto frozen soil, which acted less like dirt and more like concrete. Instead of being absorbed, water from the rain and melted snow raced straight into the Missouri River and its tributaries. Devastating flooding hit Missouri, Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska. Near Omaha, one-third of Offutt Air Force Base was inundated, including a runway. One Missouri River tributary, the Little Sioux River, rose almost 16 feet in one day. And early last Thursday, the Niobrara River smashed through the nearly century-old Spencer Dam while pushing huge chunks of ice downriver. By the end of the day, the Niobrara and other tributaries had filled the reservoir behind the Gavins Point Dam, near Yankton, South Dakota, and Mr. Remus faced his decision.  Gavins Point is relatively small, not designed to hold back that kind of inflow. But losing the dam would be catastrophic. To save Gavins Point, he ordered its spillways opened. At its peak, 100,000 cubic feet of water per second, the same as Niagara Falls, poured into a river already surging toward record heights. “We filled up our bucket, and the spigot kept running,” Mr. Remus said. The results of last week’s storm are still evident: As of Wednesday, at least three people had been killed and there were emergency declarations in four states. Few people hold sway over as much water as Mr. Remus, the chief of the Army Corps’ Missouri River Basin Water Management Division. He operates six massive dams that help shape and define a river stretching more than 2,000 miles through the American heartland. His decisions affect the lives of countless communities and ecosystems — the cities, factories and power plants that draw water from the river; the endangered species that nest on its sandbars; the farmers who cultivate its floodplains. Often, their interests conflict. “You’re not going to make them happy,” he said, “but you can provide them with an explanation.”  An imposingly large man with a neat mustache, Mr. Remus, 59, grew up in Western Nebraska and speaks deliberately. In his tidy, windowless office in Omaha, the main feature is a tabletop map of roughly half the United States. Over the course of several interviews, he discussed his work and said the Corps had not looked at climate change from a planning perspective.  “Scientists say that, in the Missouri Basin, we’ll be spending more time at each end of the spectrum — longer and more severe floods, longer and more severe droughts,” Mr. Remus said. And this year, he had “nothing but bad options.” A 2012 report on climate change in the Missouri River Basin, commissioned by the Bureau of Reclamation (the Corps’ western equivalent) predicted by the middle of this century a roughly 6 percent average annual increase in upper-basin runoff and a bit more than a 10 percent  increase in the lower river. The Missouri Basin had more runoff from rain and snow last year than all but two years since record-keeping began in 1898. “Is that normal variation?” he asked, or “are we working our way to a new normal?” “Something’s changing, what that is exactly. …” he said, trailing off. Mr. Remus’s stewardship of the river is guided by a 432-page document, the Master Manual, which lays out the eight congressionally authorized purposes he must balance. They are flood control, river navigation, hydroelectric power, irrigation, water supply, water quality, recreation (such as fishing or boating), and the preservation of endangered species. One problem with that: The Master Manual does not explicitly tell Mr. Remus which is more important. Thus the eight purposes exist in a near constant state of tension. “You can’t say that you serve all of them equally,” Mr. Remus said. The word he clings to is “balance.” But when extreme flooding looms, he said, “the balance goes away.”  Then, all that matters is flood control.  For millenniums, the Missouri was a wide, sinuous river. Passage was treacherous and steamboats frequently sank in the shallows. The river flooded in the spring, and you could walk across it in the fall. After the devastating dust bowl years of the 1930s and a series of severe floods in the early 1940s, Congress decided to do something. It was the era of big dams. Across America, landscapes were being rearranged to suit human needs. Over time, the broad, shallow river was transformed into a deep, narrower channel more conducive to the river shipping business, in the process creating new land along the banks.  Levees were built near the new channel to prevent flooding and farmers were offered the new land at low cost. According to the Corps, 522,000 acres of floodplain and river habitat were converted to farmland or otherwise lost. While farmland in some places was being created, elsewhere it was being submerged behind immense dams and their vast new reservoirs. Some 350,000 acres of that land belonged to Native Americans. Faith Spotted Eagle, a 70-year-old tribal elder and activist from the Yankton Sioux Reservation in South Dakota, said she remembers as a child having to leave her family’s home in the village of White Swan, now beneath 140 feet of water at the bottom of Lake Francis Case, a reservoir created by the Fort Randall Dam.  The Yankton never consented to their land being submerged. In 2002 the tribe was paid $23 million for the 2,851 acres that were affected in the 1950s, and is still fighting for compensation for hundreds of additional acres it says have since been eroded away. “It’s all loss, loss, loss,” she said.  For the federal government, though, it was worth it.  Downtown Kansas City and Omaha have not flooded since the dams went in. Cheap hydroelectric power is abundant. With the river in check, the economy grew. Early last Thursday, floodwaters near Bartlett, Iowa, overtopped a levee north of David Lueth’s house. The Sheriff ordered an evacuation. Mr. Lueth, 61 years old, disregarded the order. Instead, he rushed to move 1,000 bushels of soybeans stored in a bin beside his house. If the beans got wet, they would rot. The sky was blue and trumpeter swans flew overhead, a beautiful day, he said. But Mr. Lueth was near tears. Water from the Bartlett breach was rolling his way. At the prospect of leaving his home and farm, he said: “I was physically sick this morning. Threw up twice.” It reminded him vividly of what happened eight years ago, in the great flood of 2011. Then, another nearby levee was almost completely destroyed. It cost him his life savings, $100,000, to restore his land. To Mr. Remus, 2011’s destructive flood represented a rare opportunity to rethink the Missouri River levee system to accommodate more floodwater. The easiest way to do that would be to move levees away from the river, making the flood plain bigger.  He took his argument to the local board that oversaw the destroyed levee. Faced with the costs of rebuilding their levee practically from scratch, he reasoned, they might be willing to move it back.  Leo Ettleman, 64, was at those meetings and said he remembers saying, “John, we can’t afford it,” to which he says Mr. Remus replied: “Can you afford floods?” (Mr. Remus said he didn’t recall the conversation.) Mr. Remus’s effort largely failed. The levee was set back some, but not nearly as much as the Corps had proposed. Today the whole episode stands as a case study in how difficult it can be for Mr. Remus to balance everyone’s needs. The levee’s rebuilding was followed by years of litigation in which the Corps was accused of prioritizing wildlife at the expense of flood control. The plaintiffs alleged that Mr. Remus’s predecessor would have prevented flooding if she had not favored the threatened and endangered species. Last March, a federal judge agreed and found the government liable for flood damage dating back to 2007. Listed as threatened since 1986, piping plovers nest above the waterline on sandbars. The puffy, migratory beach dwellers once were plentiful, but as the river changed, the birds became scarce. And last year along the Missouri, the plovers were a clear loser. Mr. Remus had to release floodwaters building behind the dams just as mating pairs of plovers were tending their eggs near the water’s edge. On a humid morning last summer, Jessica Archer took five “Area Closed” signs from a small boat and threw them clattering onto the sand. A no-nonsense 26-year-old from a small Iowa town, she was part of a team of Army Corps biologists counting plovers as well as endangered interior least terns.  When a fellow biologist picked up two signs instead of one, Ms. Archer snapped at her — “put one down,” she said — but she wasn’t upset about the signs. She was frustrated that they probably wouldn’t be able to save two plover nests they had just discovered.  She had good reason to think that. Mr. Remus was, in fact, opening the floodgates upriver.  “It’s a bad year for the birds,” he had said in an interview just a few days earlier. Last year was the third-wettest year in the Missouri Basin since record-keeping began in 1898. Mr. Remus said that both he and his predecessor (who declined to be interviewed) managed the river strictly according to the Master Manual, their bible of river management.  But last year, something had to give. In 2018, only 27 percent of plover and tern nests survived. This past Friday, Mr. Lueth was melancholy as he lingered in his home. It was, he said, “like leaving your child at the I.C.U.” He was certain Mr. Remus could have done more. What about people upstream, “Why don’t they take the damage?” he said. If the Gavins Point Dam wasn’t helping, let it fail. Weather like this, storms that exceed the system’s ability to manage flooding, is clearly a problem. “Whether it’s global warming, or a tilt in the earth. …” Mr. Lueth said, leaving his thought unfinished. “It’s time to change, now.” If the government wants his land for a spillway or a new dam, he said, they can have it. Just pay him fair market value, $8,000 to $9,000 an acre. On Monday, Mr. Lueth was helping a friend move some farming equipment to higher ground when they paused, he said, to watch hundreds of deer race across a flooded field, chased from the woods by high water. On Tuesday, Mr. Lueth lost his home. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.", "id": "5c9352f849f0eacbf105e3b3", "date": "2019-03-21T09:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: A Climate Denialist on Trump’s Climate Change Panel", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Despite multiple reports from his own government that call global warming a threat to national security, President Trump plans to set up a panel to examine the question again. It will include William Happer, a climate denialist who has said that carbon dioxide benefits humanity. • Mr. Trump heightened his attacks on the press this week, praising a libel lawsuit against The Washington Post, calling for “retribution” against NBC over “Saturday Night Live” and issuing his sharpest words yet against The Times, which he called “a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!” • On one side, Bernie Sanders promises a single-payer revolution. On the other, Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown are calling for incremental change. Here’s how health care became the first real debate of the 2020 Democratic primary. • Just over 24 hours after announcing his presidential bid, Mr. Sanders had already raised $6 million from more than 225,000 donors. • Wealthy investors are seeking tax breaks by plowing money into so-called opportunity zone funds. The funds are a creation of the 2017 tax law that provides incentives for spending on projects in poor areas. • Siding with a drug offender whose $42,000 car was taken by law enforcement officials, the Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution places limits on the ability of states and localities to seize private property allegedly used to commit crimes, a practice known as civil forfeiture. • The Federal Reserve released minutes of its January meeting, which showed that officials had expressed confidence in the economy but saw enough warning signs to warrant a pause in rate increases. • Mr. Trump met with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria, who shares his appeal to nationalism and determination to crack down on immigration. • Here’s how a veteran campaign operative in rural North Carolina created an illicit operation to collect absentee ballots and sway a House race for the Republican candidate. • Immigrants applying for American citizenship must wait almost twice as long for their applications to be processed as they did two years ago. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6e30313a125f5075c0ab73", "date": "2019-02-21T04:57:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Skipping School to Save the Earth", "full_text": " LONDON — Thousands of young people in Britain are expected to abandon their classrooms and take to the streets on Friday to join a growing movement to protest the lack of action on climate change. Inspired by a 16-year-old Swedish climate activist, Greta Thunberg, who cut class on a weekly basis last year to stage sit-ins outside Sweden’s Parliament, young climate campaigners are planning to walk out of British schools, colleges and universities across 40 towns and cities on Friday. “I’ve always had a strong fascination with the environment, and I’ve always been aware of climate change and sustainable living, but when I saw thousands of kids around the world striking for the cause it inspired me to start my own,” said Anna Taylor, 17, a co-founder of the UK Student Climate Network,  which is coordinating the strikes. The global movement, known as the Youth Strike 4 Climate, gained momentum last October following the publication of a landmark report from the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warning that humanity had just 12 years to avert the consequences of catastrophic climate change, with worsening food shortages, rising sea levels, floods and wildfires. The content of the report shocked Ms. Thunberg and drove her to stake out Parliament to demand that politicians start to treat climate change as a crisis. Her demonstrations struck a chord with thousands of young people from Australia to Europe, who have periodically been ditching their classrooms to carry out similar protests. For Britain, this will be its first coordinated nationwide school strike on the issue. In addition to a demand that the government declare a state of emergency and communicate the severity of the threat to the public, the campaigners are calling to make climate change a priority in the national curriculum. “We are taught a little bit about it at school, but nowhere near enough, and the severity of the situation is not addressed at all,” Ms. Taylor said in an interview. “Youth voices are too often left out of the discussion when it comes to climate change,” said Jake Woodier, a member of the UK Youth Climate Coalition, a nonprofit youth organization that works to mobilize positive action on climate change. “Our current trajectory is completely incompatible with a clean, safe environment not only for ourselves, but future generations as well.” A second round of protests is being organized for March 15 in conjunction with another global youth strike. The youth initiative has received some criticism from climate-change deniers, who claim the campaigners are being manipulated by politicians and environmental organizations. But some of those critiques have drawn a backlash. Belgium’s environment minister, Joke Schauvliege, resigned after falsely claiming that the country’s intelligence services held evidence that “unnamed powers” were behind a student-led climate march that drew more than 35,000 participants. The planned strikes have drawn a mixed response in British schools, with some encouraging students to join the protests and others threatening to punish them. “My school was not supportive at the start. They said I would get detention for unauthorized absence,” Ms. Taylor said. “But then I spoke to my head teacher yesterday. She said she supports it now and will authorize my absence and anyone else participating as long as they have permission from their parents.” A spokesman for the Department for Education said that the matter was for individual schools, but highlighted that pupils could take term-time leave only in “exceptional circumstances,” and when the leave had been authorized by a head teacher. Bonnie Morely, 16, who will be participating in the protests with eight friends from her school in southwest London, said that her head teacher had taken down posters in the common areas that advertised the event. “They’re treating us like we are doing something really wrong,” Ms. Morley said, adding: “The future of our planet is looking really bleak, and all the politicians are asleep at the wheel. We have to wake them up, and I think thousands of kids on the streets will do just that.”   ", "id": "5c65a7653a125f5075c09bd5", "date": "2019-02-14T17:36:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Is Climate Change Affecting Your Area? We Want to Hear From You", "full_text": " Help us get a picture of how communities around the world are affected by — and adapting to — the manifestations of climate change. Sea levels have risen so high in some cities on the East Coast of the United States and in some Gulf Coast cities that a high tide and strong wind can send salt water one to two feet deep cascading onto paved streets. This phenomenon, known as sunny day flooding, has increased in recent years in some places because of climate change, according to federal scientists. In other parts of the world, climate change has been linked to drought or decreases in snowpack. The Times would like your help chronicling the effect of some of these environmental changes on communities around the world. Please tell us about your community below. Your response may be selected for publication. A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.", "id": "5c869bf049f0eacbf105c734", "date": "2019-03-11T17:32:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change, Brexit, Virginia: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  NASA measured an exceptionally hot 2018 for the planet, Britain has gone pleading to Brussels, and Democrats moved to investigate President Trump. Here’s the latest:  NASA scientists announced that Earth’s average surface temperature for 2018 was more than one degree Celsius above the average of the late 19th century, when humans started pumping large amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. That puts the year among the hottest in nearly 140 years of record keeping. The trend is unmistakable. The last five years have been the five warmest on record. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.” Analysis: What sets the warming apart from long climatic fluctuations of the geologic past is its relative suddenness and its clear correlation with increased levels of greenhouse gas emissions produced by human activity. Interactive: You can see how your city’s temperatures stacked up in 2018.  A reminder: To avoid the most catastrophic consequences of climate change, scientists have said that global temperatures must not rise by more than two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels. Even an increase of 1.5 degrees will be dire, a U.N. report has found. But despite a global climate compact, it appears likely that Earth’s temperatures will ascend beyond the two-degree threshold.  Britain’s prime minister will sit down with senior E.U. officials in Brussels and try to persuade them to do what they say they will not: renegotiate Brexit.  Even before she boarded the plane, things did not augur well. Outraging some in Britain, Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said there was a “special place in hell” for those who promoted leaving the bloc without offering a plan on how to do so.  The day ahead: Mrs. May will meet senior figures like Mr. Tusk and seek help in salvaging the plan that she negotiated with the E.U., but which Britain’s Parliament resoundingly defeated last month.  Under pressure from hard-liners, Mrs. May wants to alter the so-called Irish backstop. But E.U. officials have expressed little interest in her ideas for amending it, and an analyst predicted that the talks would be “wheel-spinning.” A day after President Trump denounced “ridiculous partisan investigations” in his State of the Union speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House Democrats wouldn’t back down from holding his administration accountable. “It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” she said. Fellow Democrats immediately pushed ahead with several inquiries, including one focused on Mr. Trump’s tax returns. Analysis: His speech depicted socialism as a menace, alluding to both Venezuela and Democrats — a trope that could become a rhetorical touchstone in his 2020 campaign.  Go deeper: Democrats’ resurgence was on full display during the address, our chief Washington correspondent writes. And the internet saw a clapback, above. In the last two weeks, thousands of people — many severely injured — have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz, the last dot of land under Islamic State control in Iraq and Syria.  The Islamic State, which once ruled a dominion the size of Britain, is sequestered to an area about the size of Central Park. But collapse has not meant the group’s end. It still has thousands of fighters in the region and flourishing offshoots overseas, including in the Philippines and Nigeria. On the ground: Islamic State fighters in Baghuz are surrounded, and even veteran militants are giving up. Families of militants say they have been reduced to eating a weed that grows in highway medians. American officials said that a request by the Islamic State for safe passage out of the village was still on the table. Looking ahead: In a speech to international diplomats, Mr. Trump said he expected to announce soon that the U.S. and its partners will have reclaimed all of the Islamic State’s territory in Syria.  Siemens: The E.U. antitrust authorities blocked the German company’s plans to merge its train unit with Alstom of France. The deal had been pitched as a counterbalance to China’s entry into the European market. Russia: In response to the Trump administration’s scrapping a Cold War-era arms control treaty, President Vladimir Putin warned that his country was working on developing new “hypersonic” missiles that could travel more than five times the speed of sound. Some experts see a bluff.  NATO: The country now known as North Macedonia was formally invited to become NATO’s 30th member, an accession that could be complete by year’s end.  U.S. politics: The attorney general of Virginia, the state’s third-highest official, acknowledged that he had worn blackface at a party as an undergraduate student, an admission that followed the disclosure of a racist photograph on the yearbook page of Gov. Ralph Northam. The crisis for the state’s Democratic Party extended to the second-highest state official, the lieutenant governor, whom a woman has accused of sexual assault.  Afghanistan: After two days of talks in Moscow, the Taliban and prominent Afghan politicians said they had charted a course for ending the country’s war, which is in its 18th year. But the Afghan government was not represented in the talks, which may limit their effectiveness.  Greece: Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras was welcomed to a renowned Orthodox seminary near Istanbul that Turkey forced to close 48 years ago, a visit that raised hopes for a broader thaw between the usually antagonistic Greece and Turkey. 21 Savage: As Immigration and Customs Enforcement moved to deport the detained rapper from the U.S. — a country to which his lawyer said he was brought at 7 — the internet homed in on his status as a native of Britain. Britain: A judge ordered suspended sentences and community service for a group known as the Stansted 15, who were charged last year after breaking into Stansted Airport, north of London, to ground a flight deporting migrants.  Real doctor, or fake? Matteo Politi, going under the name Matthew Mode, posted videos of himself appearing to be a high-rolling plastic surgeon in Romania. Now he is under arrest there amid accusations that he is not a real doctor.  Did a seal eat your thumb drive? A biologist in New Zealand discovered a USB drive in the feces of a leopard seal and is trying to find the owner of the vacation photos and videos on the memory stick. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Treat yourself to a homemade bistro dinner with blue-cheese hanger steak and endive-herb salad. Pillows, throws, trays and bowls make a more inviting living room. Strenuous exercise may protect our heart from some of the problems it helps cause. A recent letter to the editor took The Times to task for not running enough letters from women. We asked one of the letters editors, Sue Mermelstein, to explain how The Times responded. The fact that our letters page skews male is something we’ve struggled with. A letter from Kimberly Probolus gave us a perfect opportunity to address it. When we published it, we also urged more women to write, and committed to work toward parity. We’ve already seen an uptick in correspondence from women that has been thoughtful and telling. “It has never occurred to me that someone would want to hear my voice,” one said. Women and men alike expressed concern that we might begin selecting letters on the basis of gender rather than merit. We won’t, but we are inviting letters from a broader range of readers, via newsletters like this one, the Reader Center and The Times’s social media. This weekend we plan to publish readers’ thoughts on why women are underrepresented in opinion pages. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c5bbd6d3a125f5075c086bc", "date": "2019-02-07T05:08:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Blamed for Climate Change, Oil Companies Invest in Carbon Removal", "full_text": " Chevron, Occidental Petroleum and BHP have invested in Carbon Engineering, a start-up developing technology to take carbon out of the atmosphere. Fuel made from carbon dioxide that Carbon Engineering removed from the air in a pilot project in Squamish, British Columbia.CreditCreditAlana Paterson for The New York Times SQUAMISH, British Columbia — Everyone knows an electric fan can make people feel cooler on a steamy day. But could fans moderate the planet’s rising temperatures? Some of the world’s biggest fossil fuel companies would like to find out. Chevron, Occidental Petroleum and the Australian mining giant BHP this year have invested in Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company that claims to be on the verge of a breakthrough in solving a critical climate change puzzle: removing carbon already in the atmosphere. At its pilot project in Squamish, an old lumber town about 30 miles north of Vancouver, the company is using an enormous fan to suck large amounts of air into a scrubbing vessel designed to extract carbon dioxide. The gas can then be buried or converted into a clean-burning — though expensive — synthetic fuel. Investing in Carbon Engineering and other carbon-reduction initiatives is part of an emerging effort by fossil-fuel industries to remain relevant and profitable in a warming world. With electric cars and solar and wind power becoming increasingly affordable, executives acknowledge that business as usual could put their companies at risk. Already, fossil-fuel companies face a barrage of lawsuits, investor resolutions and regulations prompting them to invest more in clean energy. Advocacy groups are also pressing companies and lawmakers to keep oil and natural gas in the ground by challenging hydraulic fracturing, especially in Europe, and fighting pipelines meant to transport production from Canada’s oil sands. “This is about recognizing that climate change poses significant risks to all economic sectors,” Fiona Wild, BHP’s vice president for sustainability and climate change, said about the company’s $6 million investment in Carbon Engineering. “Climate change is no longer seen as a fringe issue. It’s a business risk that requires a business response.” Of course, big energy companies continue to drill for oil and gas and are pushing the Trump administration and other governments to open more territory to exploration. But some businesses have signaled that they are changing. A few companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and BP, are linking compensation to emissions reductions. Equinor, the Norwegian oil company, plans to increase spending on clean energy to 15 to 20 percent of its capital investment by 2030, up from 5 percent now. Carbon Engineering’s pilot on the rocky shores of Howe Sound is one of several carbon “direct-air-capture” ventures being attempted around the world. It is still a small effort, but its backers say it could play an important role in arresting climate change. Much of the work is done in an old industrial warehouse of corrugated metal adorned with faded graffiti, a structure once used by a company that made chemicals for the pulp industry. The temporary offices are decidedly makeshift, with the bathrooms entered from outside. No carbon is actually being pulled out of the atmosphere permanently because the company is still in testing mode. Chevron and Occidental, which have each taken seats on Carbon Engineering’s board, refused to disclose their investments. The company says it raised a total of $68 million in its most recent funding round to expand the pilot and develop its first commercial plant. Critics of fossil-fuel companies say such investments are so modest as to amount to little more than a public-relations stunt. “That’s chump change for these guys,” said Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an environmental organization in Washington. “I don’t see any epiphanies.” But other experts disagree. “It could be greenwashing, but so what?” said Dieter Helm, a professor of energy policy at Oxford and the author of “Burn Out: The Endgame for Fossil Fuels.” “If money is being spent on research and development to develop ways to sequester carbon, that is a good thing.” Executives at Carbon Engineering said they welcomed investments by fossil-fuel companies not only for the money but also for their engineering and lobbying skills. “I have great big brothers now who are looking after me,” said Steve Oldham, Carbon Engineering’s chief executive. “Initially companies wanted to show that they were thinking of being green. Now you are seeing action.” The company said its commercial plants would have banks of large fans, 33 feet in diameter, to collect air and run it through a complex chemical process. Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company, has developed methods to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere using “direct-air-capture” technology. It is one of several companies around the world working on the technique. The carbon dioxide may be reprocessed into fuel, or buried for disposal. Direct-air-capture technology PURE CO2 GAS TYPICAL ATMOSPHERIC AIR May be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel. HYDROXIDE SOLUTION 1 2 3 4 WATER CO2-RICH CARBONATE SOLUTION CALCIUM CARBONATE PELLETS CALCIUM OXIDE CALCIUM OXIDE SLURRY AIR WITH MOST OF THE CO2 REMOVED 1. Air intake 2. Pellet reactor 3. Calciner 4. Slaker Large fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution.  The carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate.  The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide. Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process. Direct-air-capture technology PURE CO2 GAS TYPICAL ATMOSPHERIC AIR May be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel. HYDROXIDE SOLUTION 1 2 3 4 WATER CO2-RICH CARBONATE SOLUTION CALCIUM CARBONATE PELLETS CALCIUM OXIDE CALCIUM OXIDE SLURRY AIR WITH MOST OF THE CO2 REMOVED 1. Air intake 2. Pellet reactor 3. Calciner 4. Slaker The carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate.  The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide. Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process. Large fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution.  Direct-air-capture technology 1. Air intake TYPICAL ATMOSPHERIC AIR HYDROXIDE SOLUTION Large fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution.  CO2-RICH CARBONATE SOLUTION AIR WITH MOST OF THE CO2 REMOVED 2. Pellet reactor The carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate.  CALCIUM CARBONATE PELLETS 3. Calciner The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide. CALCIUM OXIDE SLURRY PURE CO2 GAS May be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel. CALCIUM OXIDE 4. Slaker Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process. WATER The air will be pushed through honeycombed plastic channels coated with potassium hydroxide that attaches itself to carbon dioxide. More chemicals will be added to produce tiny white pellets containing carbon. The pellets will then be heated to more than 1,600 degrees to form carbon dioxide gas. In one kind of plant the company hopes to build, the captured carbon dioxide could be injected underground, where it would be harmless unless some of it leaked back into the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham asserts that each such installation could eventually take as much carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere annually as 40 million trees. In another kind of facility, captured carbon dioxide would be combined with hydrogen extracted from water to make synthetic fuel that can be processed into gasoline, diesel or jet fuel. The energy needed to produce hydrogen would come from wind turbines and solar panels to limit emissions. The company’s synthetic fuel would be more expensive than conventional gasoline. Production costs could be about $4 a gallon, according to Carbon Engineering, compared with more than $2.70-a-gallon average retail price in the United States. But it could still be attractive to countries that spend tens of billions of dollars on crude imports, like India and Japan. Regulations taxing carbon could also make the fuel more attractive. The company says its synthetic fuels could be used in standard car, truck and plane engines, and would cause less air pollution than traditional fuels. Burning Carbon Engineering’s fuel would release carbon dioxide, but it would not increase greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by much or at all because the process would be recycling carbon that was already in the air, executives said. Early investors in Carbon Engineering include the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and N. Murray Edwards, executive chairman of Canadian Natural Resources, a big producer of oil sands, a heavy oil that has a large carbon footprint. “Oil and gas companies have to wonder about their future,” said Michael Webber, an energy professor at the University of Texas at Austin. “They know that someday the energy mix will be different. So there are a lot of motivations for this investment.” Occidental wants to use the technology to find a sustainable supply of carbon dioxide that it can use to inject in its oil fields to increase pressure and extract more oil while also sequestering the carbon. The company is already the largest injector in the industry, but it now re-injects carbon that was found in natural underground deposits — providing little or no environmental benefit. By recycling carbon taken from the air, it hopes to bury as much carbon as its fuels emit, or even more. As an added benefit, there is a federal tax credit for sequestering carbon. “Every oil company should be striving to become carbon neutral,” said Vicki Hollub, Occidental’s chief executive. “Ultimately, we think we can be carbon negative. Addressing climate change is a turning point for the industry.” Chevron is seeking to meet a different immediate need. California requires refiners and other distributors to meet progressively declining targets of carbon in their fuels through 2030. Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., has two big refineries in the state that could use the synthetic fuel. “We have a need for low-carbon fuels,” said Barbara Burger, president of Chevron Technology Ventures. “The world needs transportation fuels and the public desires them, but they have an expectation that we lower the carbon content. And this is one of the options to do that.” But ramping up the ambitious ideas put forward by Carbon Engineering and other companies into projects large enough to have an important environmental impact will take considerable investment. Mr. Oldham said one of his carbon capture and sequestration plants would remove one million tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere annually, a small fraction of the more than 33 billion tons humanity emits in a year. The sequestration process would cost roughly $100 per ton, which in Occidental’s model could be offset in part by the increased oil production it would enable. The carbon could also be used to make cement and other building materials. But in case of an acute global climate emergency, governments would probably have to step in to hasten removal of carbon from the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham said the cost of capturing and sequestering all the carbon needed to stop climate change would require trillions of dollars. The company’s synthetic fuel could also struggle to find markets because of its cost. David Keith, an applied physicist at Harvard who founded Carbon Engineering and sits on its board, said the synthetic fuel would be most useful for trucks, ships and planes, while cars and other smaller vehicles would more likely be powered by batteries in the future. “There is no way we are beating oil from the ground in a head-to-head competition without regulation,” Mr. Keith said, referring to carbon taxes and other environmental policies. If there is sufficient political will to deeply cut emissions, he added, “I think you will see a large amount of this technology in the next decade or two.”    ", "id": "5caa472d49f0eacbf1f81761", "date": "2019-04-07T18:52:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "An Easy New Year’s Resolution: Help the Earth by Consuming Less", "full_text": " Climate Fwd: Also this week, the latest on the government shutdown and Democrats’ plans to address climate change. Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox. Happy 2019, everyone! While many of us are back to work, parts of the federal government are still closed. The shutdown has not affected the Energy Department, since that agency’s funding has already been approved by Congress. But the Interior Department is struggling with mounting garbage and dirty bathrooms at national parks that are being kept open with minimal staffing. And the Environmental Protection Agency, which had been operating through Friday, has now furloughed thousands of workers. Just before the furloughs, the E.P.A. issued a major regulatory announcement: a plan to weaken standards that were designed to keep mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants out of the atmosphere. The proposal could also hamper the government’s ability to enact future pollution regulations. And what about the effects that the Trump administration’s policies are already having? I hope you made some time over the holidays to read this tremendous investigation by my colleagues Eric Lipton, Steve Eder and John Branch detailing the impacts on communities across the country as the administration eliminates dozens of Obama-era environmental rules. Meanwhile, Representative Nancy Pelosi, expected to be sworn in as speaker of the House this week, has appointed Kathy Castor, a Florida Democrat, to lead a new select committee on climate change. Ms. Castor said in a statement that Congress must reduce carbon pollution “by unleashing American ingenuity and creating clean energy jobs to power our future.” The committee has its critics, including incoming Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who has championed the idea of a “Green New Deal” that would, among other things, transition the country to 100 percent renewable energy and provide a universal jobs guarantee. In a tweet this week, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez commended the creation of the select committee but she said the panel would be weakened without subpoena power or a mandate to develop Green New Deal legislation. “There is still time to strengthen it,” she wrote. Notably, one solution that doesn’t seem to be up for serious consideration from the panel is a carbon tax. That could be because, as Justin Gillis asserts in this thought-provoking opinion column, it’s too politically toxic at the moment. On the other hand, the idea is getting new traction in some quarters, including from Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who co-sponsored legislation at the end of 2018 with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, to tax emissions and return the proceeds to American households as a dividend. Expect this issue to heat up in the next Congress. A new year is a time to look back and to look forward. So, in that spirit of reflection, we reviewed our “One Thing You Can Do” series, looking for some New Year’s resolutions. These individual actions are not a substitute for broader systemic change, but they can still help you lower your personal contribution to global warming. New Year’s resolutions often mean doing more, like working out more or saving more for retirement. But one common thread we found was that if you want to lower your climate footprint, you can find some success in simply consuming less. And it will save you money, too. Hang onto your phone Take, for example, your cellphone. Most of us hold onto them for only two years, but as we noted in November, producing a common smartphone released the equivalent of 178 pounds of carbon dioxide, about as much running a modern refrigerator for a year. That is one of the biggest reasons that the global carbon footprint of smartphones is projected to increase by 730 percent this decade. While some companies are making strides in reducing the environmental impact associated with producing our favorite mobile devices, hanging onto your phone for longer than two years is one way to make a difference. Buy less clothing Another thing that’s helpful to hold onto? Your old clothes. The amount of textile waste in the United States increased by more than 800 percent from 1960 to 2015, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (The population grew by about 78 percent during that period.) The process of creating all of that fabric has a significant environmental impact, including on the climate. One thing you can do is to buy less clothing; spend the new year shopping in your closet instead. Reduce food waste Also spend more time searching through your cupboard this year. January is a great time to use up the contents of your fridge and cabinets before food spoils and you have to throw it out. Globally, we throw out about a third of the food we buy, and if food waste were its own country it would be the third-largest greenhouse gas emitter behind China and the United States, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Reducing food waste is a great way to cut your greenhouse gas emissions, and it can help reduce your grocery bill at the same time. But while you’re thinking about the best ways to cook up holiday leftovers, don’t do it in front of the refrigerator. Make sure to shut the fridge door when you’re not pulling things out — keeping the door shut is the most effective thing you can do to lower your fridge’s energy consumption.  Eduardo Garcia, Henry Fountain and Julia Rosen contributed reporting. We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com. If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week. And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman  Kendra Pierre-Louis is a reporter on the climate team. Before joining The Times in 2017, she covered science and the environment for Popular Science.  @kendrawrites ", "id": "5c2d10933a125f5075c02920", "date": "2019-01-02T19:27:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Mocks Climate Change. That’s a Key to Defeating Him.", "full_text": " A Green Real Deal will put the president on the defensive in the next election. Opinion Columnist Here’s some news you may have missed. Southeastern Africa got hit in March with a cyclone that United Nations officials say was one of the worst weather disasters to ever strike the Southern Hemisphere. “Ever” is a long time.  The storm swept through Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe, killing hundreds. My friend Greg Carr, who runs the Gorongosa National Park in Mozambique, told me that the lions, elephants and zebras sensed the storm coming and moved to higher ground to avoid the flooding. Among the people and birds that survived, many of the former lost their homes and the latter their nests and eggs. While this historic weather disaster was unfolding, President Trump was urging Republicans not to kill the Democrats’ Green New Deal proposal — not because Trump wants to work with it, but because he wants to run against it in 2020. Trump wants to take the Green New Deal, co-sponsored by Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of the Bronx, and mock its aspiration to urgently decarbonize our electric grid, transportation sector, industries and buildings, while pairing all that with programs to ensure that every American can get a job and have access to health care and “safe, affordable, adequate housing,” as well as other social goods. AOC’s rejoinder: “For everyone who wants to make a joke about that, you may laugh, but your grandkids will not.” She is right. And given the choice between a “Green New Deal” that envisions scaling justice for all and Trump’s “Black New Deal,” which protects profitable pollution for the 1 percent, my heart is with the greens. But my head says you can’t transform our energy system and our social/economic one at scale all at once. We have to prioritize energy/climate. Because for the environment, later will be too late. Later is officially over. And if Democrats approach this right — with a barrage of political ads paired with a focused green strategy, like the “Green Real Deal” proposed by Ernie Moniz, Barack Obama’s energy secretary, and Andy Karsner, George W. Bush’s assistant energy secretary for renewable energy — they can win on this issue in 2020 and make Trump the laughingstock. Here are the kinds of political ads I’d run: The Department of Energy’s 2017 U.S. Energy and Employment Report revealed that solar energy was employing more workers than the traditional coal, gas and oil industries combined. But Trump says he prefers big, beautiful coal. How do your kids feel about that? The heartland of America’s wind energy system today is Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, North Dakota and Iowa, which all voted for Trump in 2016. But Trump says noise from wind turbines “causes cancer.” Do you buy that? Cyclone Idai devastated some of the greatest wilderness areas in Africa. Trump couldn’t care less. Do you? Because another decade of storms like that, and the only lions, elephants and zebras your grandkids will ever see will be in a Disney movie. Newsweek just reported that a study published in the journal Nature found that the replenishment of new coral in Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, one of the true natural wonders on our planet, “fell by a staggering 89 percent following two severe mass bleaching events in 2016 and 2017, which were caused by significant spikes in water temperature. The two bleaching events were the worst in recorded history, leading to a catastrophic die-off in many regions of the 3,800 individual reefs that comprise the world’s largest reef system.” Your grandkids may never see a real coral reef. Trump couldn’t care less. Do you? I’d pound Trump with these points, but they will be effective only if married to a “Green Real Deal.” For Moniz and Karsner, that would involve every state or city adopting its own version of a plan California approved last year called S.B. 100. S.B. 100, which was spearheaded by State Senator Kevin de León, an unsung hero of the green movement, mandated that power companies steadily increase carbon-free electricity on their grid until it reaches 100 percent by 2045.  As David Roberts wrote for Vox, de León kept “the bill simple and direct enough to command broad support. … Somehow, everyone saw themselves in S.B. 100. Labor and business, nukes and renewables, markets and mandates, cats and dogs — somehow the bill hit the sweet spot. It contained enough substance to matter, but not so many bells and whistles that everyone found something to hate.” The law sets a steadily rising standard for California power generation companies: 50 percent renewables by 2026, 60 percent renewables by 2030 and 100 percent carbon-free — so as to include energy sources that aren’t actually renewable, but don’t emit carbon dioxide— — by 2045. So wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, large hydro, nuclear power and natural gas paired with carbon capture and storage (C.C.S.) can all play, plus whatever new clean power gets invented. And the steadily rising California standard guarantees they’ll all have a growing market to sell into. A Green Real Deal would be a nationwide effort to inspire and enable Democrats and sensible Republicans to come up with state and local versions of S.B. 100 and thereby stimulate America’s earth race — not space race — to get to national net-zero emissions by 2045, or earlier. It could garner a lot of G.O.P. support in wind states, businesses could make money off it, and it would put Trump totally on the defensive. As Moniz and Karsner wrote in an essay on CNBC.com: “Climate deniers, as well as those with demonstrably impractical, short-term, feel-good solutions, are moving us sideways when forward motion is essential.” A Green Real Deal, they argue in The Santa Barbara Independent, would set “ambitious, but achievable, stretch goals that can be flexibly met and spur innovation and prosperity.” Trump is vulnerable to a bipartisan, industry-friendly plan like this. Last year, The Atlantic reported that “a coalition of 34 student groups from around the country — including 23 chapters of the College Republican — announced the formation of Students for Carbon Dividends, a bipartisan group calling for national legislation to fight climate change. … It marks the first time that a coalition of College Republican groups has publicly backed a climate-change policy.” Glenn Prickett, founder of Rock Creek Strategies, which advises organizations and companies on how to incorporate the value of nature into economic development, remarked to me: “I have been sensing something in the air that I have not felt since the late 1980s — when global warming first became prominent and Time  magazine made Planet Earth the Person of the Year — and that is that people really want the government to take this issue seriously. I have to give AOC credit for helping get it back on the agenda.” Prickett added: “I spent 25 years talking about what would happen if we don’t address this issue. Now I have to correct myself and say what is happening.” The impacts are real and they are here, “but what is new is that while the politics remain polarized, business leadership is getting behind this issue and we now have the technologies to create scale solutions.” I repeat: Later will be too late. So let me end where I began — with Greg Carr in Mozambique’s Gorongosa Park, one million acres of wilderness, which has been protecting both wildlife and the 200,000 people living around it. First of all, Carr noted by phone, “nearly half of Gorongosa Park is now a lake,” thanks to Cyclone Idai, but its trees and soils “acted like a giant sponge and absorbed tons of water,” so flooding of communities downstream was not as bad as it could have been. Parks mitigate climate extremes. “Hurricanes are going to be more of a problem, and more nature is the solution. I am talking to the government about creating another 250,000 acres of wetland conservancy to the south of us to soak up more water, because this will not be our last cyclone.” It was also Carr’s 260 park rangers who delivered 100,000 pounds of food, rescue teams and new seeds for replanting flooded crops to all the villagers living around them. (To help, go to gorongosa.org/cyclone_relief_fund.) Carr wants to see national parks in Africa transformed from just tourist sites to economic development engines, absorbers of climate change and first responders to disaster. Low-lying coastal cities in America should be thinking the same. Nine out of 10 homes in Beira — Mozambique’s fourth-largest city, on its coast — were devastated by Idai. Gorongosa is upstream from Beira and absorbed enough water to prevent that port city from being wiped off the face of the earth, Carr said. A Green Real Deal — if framed and focused properly — could wipe that smirk right off Trump’s face. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook ", "id": "5cad188849f0eacbf1f821ca", "date": "2019-04-09T22:09:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Copenhagen Wants to Show How Cities Can Fight Climate Change", "full_text": " The beginning of a ski run on the roof of Copenhagen’s new trash incinerator, which will help heat buildings in the city.CreditCredit Photographs by Charlotte de la Fuente COPENHAGEN — Can a city cancel out its greenhouse gas emissions? Copenhagen intends to, and fast. By 2025, this once-grimy industrial city aims to be net carbon neutral, meaning it plans to generate more renewable energy than the dirty energy it consumes. Here’s why it matters to the rest of the world: Half of humanity now lives in cities, and the vast share of planet-warming gases come from cities. The big fixes for climate change need to come from cities too. They are both a problem and a potential source of solutions.  The experience of Copenhagen, home to 624,000 people, can show what’s possible, and what’s tough, for other urban governments on a warming planet.  The mayor, Frank Jensen, said cities “can change the way we behave, the way we are living, and go more green.” His city has some advantages. It is small, it is rich and its people care a lot about climate change. Mr. Jensen said mayors, more than national politicians, felt the pressure to take action. “We are directly responsible for our cities and our citizens, and they expect us to act,” he said. Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. In the case of Copenhagen, that means changing how people get around, how they heat their homes, and what they do with their trash. The city has already cut its emissions by 42 percent from 2005 levels, mainly by moving away from fossil fuels to generate heat and electricity.  Politics, though, is making it hard to go further. A municipal government can only do so much when it doesn’t have the full support of those who run the country. Mr. Jensen, 57, a left-of-center Social Democrat, for instance, has failed to persuade the national government, led by a center-right party, to impose restrictions on diesel-guzzling vehicles in the capital. Transportation accounts for a third of the city’s carbon footprint; it is the largest single sector and it is growing. And so, Copenhagen’s goal to be carbon neutral faces a hurdle that is common around the world: a divide between the interests of people who live in cities and those who live outside.  Many opposition politicians and independent analysts say they doubt Copenhagen can meet its 2025 target, and some critics say the plan focuses too much on trying to balance the city’s carbon books rather than change the way people actually live. “We run around in fossil fuel burning cars, we eat a lot of meat, we buy a hell of a lot of clothes,” said Fanny Broholm, a spokeswoman for Alternativet, a left-of-center green party. “The goal is not ambitious enough as it is, and we can’t even reach this goal.” Mr. Jensen, for his part, is bullish on what he calls the capital’s “green transformation.” City officials say this is only the start. A new Metro line, scheduled to open this year, will put the vast majority of the city’s residents within 650 meters, a bit less than half a mile, of a station. Bicycle paths are already three lanes wide on busy routes for the whopping 43 percent of Copenhageners who commute to work and school by bike — even on wet, windy days, which are plentiful.  All that wind helps generate the city’s electricity. Buildings are heated, in part, by burning garbage in a new high-tech incinerator — what garbage there is to burn, that is, considering that every apartment building now has eight separate recycling bins. For every unit of fossil fuels it consumes, Copenhagen intends to sell units of renewable energy. The city has invested heavily in wind turbines. In big cities, you have the money and the scale to change things, Mr. Jensen said as he led me on a bike tour from City Hall, where excavations for a new Metro station recently turned up the remains of two Vikings. We crossed a bicycle bridge that led to a once-industrial district, now home to trendy restaurants.  As we rode, Mr. Jensen talked about parliamentary polls set for this spring. “Elections will come up in the next few months, and a lot of people living in the suburbs still have diesel cars,” he said. “It’s a political challenge. It’s not a technological challenge.”  For Copenhagen, the path to carbon neutrality is paved with imperfect solutions. Some of the city’s power plants have switched from coal to wood pellets, shipped in from the Baltics. That’s carbon neutral, in principle, if more trees can be planted in place of those that are cut down, and that has helped the city bring down its emissions significantly. But burning wood produces emissions; a lawsuit filed in the European Court of Justice argued that wood pellets should not count as renewable energy. Critics contend that big public investments in biomass only compel the city to use it for years to come. Then, there’s garbage. The city recently opened a $660 million incinerator, 85 meters tall, or about 280 feet, resembling a shiny half-built pyramid, with an even taller stack. It’s just a short walk from one of the city’s most popular restaurants, Noma. Designed by one of the country’s best-known architects, Bjarke Ingels, it comes with a year-round ski slope to attract visitors (and recoup some of the expenses). The mayor was one of the first to take a test run. Every day, 300 trucks bring garbage to be fed into its enormous furnace, including trash imported from Britain. That has a carbon footprint, too. But the chief engineer, Peter Blinksbjerg, pointed out that instead of going into a landfill, the rubbish of modern life is transformed into something useful: heat for the city’s long, cold winters. Scrubbers remove most chemical pollutants before releasing steam into the air. By summer, a cafe is set to open in the shadow of the stack. Pedaling through the city these days, it is difficult to imagine what Copenhagen once looked like. There were factories in the narrow streets and ships in the oil-stained harbor. Coal-fired power plants brought electricity. The air was smoggy. A generation of city dwellers moved out to the clean-air suburbs. Today, even on wintry, wet days, commuters move along a busy bike highway that connects the warrens of the oldest part of the city, where some buildings date to the 1400s, to the northern neighborhoods, whizzing past the stately apartment blocks that overlook the lake. The bike lane is slightly elevated above the car lane, which feels safer than just a white line that demarcates bike lanes in many other cities. Inside a cozy neighborhood cafe, a medical student named Mariam Hleihel said she welcomed Mr. Jensen’s efforts to reduce the number of polluting cars in the city. “If we don’t do anything about it now, the consequences could be irreversible,” she said. She reflected a widespread sentiment among Danes. A 2018 survey by Concito, a think tank, found that addressing climate change was a top issue for voters. Slightly more than half of those polled said they would need to change their way of life to tackle global warming. Simone Nordfalk, a cashier at a bountiful outdoor vegetable market, considered the prospect of changing eating habits for the sake of climate change. Figs had been shipped in from Brazil. Strawberries from Spain. It would be tough to return to how Danes ate a generation ago. “I don’t think that’s going to happen,” she said. “It sells.” Copenhagen is girding itself for the impact of climate change, too. The rains are more intense, and the sea is rising. In the most vulnerable neighborhoods, the city is creating new parks and ponds for water to collect before it can drain out. There are new dikes by the harbor, and a proposal to build a new island in the northeast to block storm surges. Politically speaking, public apprehension about climate change may be the strongest wind in the mayor’s sails.  “People are honestly concerned about it,” said Klaus Bondam, a former politician and now head of a bicyclists’ lobby. “You are an extremely tone deaf politician if you don’t hear that.” Martin Selsoe Sorensen contributed reporting. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of a picture caption with this story incorrectly identified a commuter train. The train was part of the suburban commuter network, not the Copenhagen Metro. Somini Sengupta covers international climate issues and is the author of \"The End of Karma: Hope and Fury Among India's Young.\"  @SominiSengupta • Facebook ", "id": "5c987cdf49f0eacbf105ed90", "date": "2019-03-25T07:00:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Venezuela, Alibaba, Climate Change: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good morning.  Venezuela’s president takes a more conciliatory approach, extreme weather affects two corners of the world and China tries to turn a desert into a trading hub. Here’s the latest:  As protests broke out in Venezuela again, President Nicolás Maduro said he was open to sitting down with the opposition, although it was unclear whether the olive branch was a genuine offer or just a delaying tactic. In an interview with a Russian news agency, Mr. Maduro also rejected calls for a new election. His re-election last year has been widely disputed, and the U.S. and a number of European countries have called for a fresh vote. “If the imperialists want new elections, let them wait until 2025,” he said. In a video, Mr. Maduro warned the U.S. that intervening in his country “would lead to a Vietnam worse than they can imagine.” Background: Over the last week, Juan Guaidó, the leader of the opposition, has received growing recognition around the world as interim president. The U.S., in an effort to oust Mr. Maduro, has also imposed harsh oil sanctions. What’s next? More protests, greater political uncertainty. And some analysts worry that the U.S. sanctions could create more chaos in an already battered economy. Another angle: Russia has been supporting Mr. Maduro from the sidelines and splattering blame on the U.S. It is unlikely to do more than that, writes our Moscow bureau chief. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, in a letter to President Trump, offered reducing the costs of keeping U.S. troops in the country in a bid to avoid a hasty American exit. The letter also suggested possibly reducing American troop number to as low as 3,000.  Mr. Ghani has made no secret of his anxiety of winding down America’s presence in the country, fearing it could further empower the Taliban. Context: Earlier this week, U.S. diplomats and Taliban representatives have both said they’ve made significant progress in peace talks that offer a blueprint for America’s withdrawal. But the Afghan government has been left out of the loop, frustrating Mr. Ghani. Another angle: President Trump’s decision to pull out of Afghanistan and Syria has critics in the U.S. too, including Republican lawmakers and intelligence chiefs. The barely inhabited steppes of Central Asia — near the one point on earth farthest from a sea or ocean — are in for a transformation. The Chinese government has decided to transform the region that straddles its border with Kazakhstan into the neural control center of its vast, trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative. A village there named Khorgos, which its boosters say is poised to become the next Dubai, will soon be the world’s largest dry port — an inland shipping and logistics hub. Background: Beijing has embarked on an ambitious project to link China to the rest of Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Russia and Europe by a latticed network of trains, highways and shipping corridors. Critics have described the initiative as “debt trap” diplomacy and a new kind of colonialism, lassoing more countries into China’s orbit. One sticking point: Beijing’s detention of hundreds of thousands of Uighur, Kazakhs and other minorities in internment camps in the nearby Xinjiang region has not helped its standing with the Kazakh government. Another angle: China has extended its influence even to Latin America, where it has surpassed the U.S. as the region’s top trading partner. Soybean imports explain how that came to be. A new study has found that rising ocean temperatures correlated with the widespread deaths of the sunflower star, a species of starfish native to the Pacific Ocean. Details: Between 2013 and 2015, the Pacific Ocean became unusually warm. At the same time, millions of starfish started succumbing to a wasting disease. The study found that, in fact, there was a correlation between the two events. Everywhere the ocean warmed, the sunflower stars sickened and died. Background: The ocean, which absorbs 90 percent of atmospheric heat trapped by greenhouse gases, has been warming faster than previously thought, which in turn is killing off marine ecosystems, raising sea levels and creating more extreme weather patterns. Speaking of extreme weather: While parts of the U.S. are suffering through a polar vortex, wildfires are raging in Australia’s record-breaking heat. Scientists say climate change could be the culprit. Facebook: Despite the privacy scandals, the social media company said that its revenue and profits climbed in the most recent quarter as did the number of new users. As for the number of fake accounts, that’s something that hasn’t added up in the past. India: On Friday, Amazon and its local competitor, Flipkart, will hike up prices for or pull thousands of products on their platforms, after the Indian government effectively barred them from selling products by affiliated companies.  Tesla: The electric-car maker reported a rise in revenue and vehicle sales but anticipated slower sales in America in the next quarter.  Alibaba: The e-commerce company — one of the world’s biggest internet businesses — said its earnings growth fell last quarter, reflecting wider troubles in the Chinese economy. Carlos Ghosn: The embattled auto executive said in an interview from a Tokyo jail that he was a victim of “plot and treason” by other Nissan leaders for his plans to integrate the company with its alliance partners — Renault and Mitsubishi — “under one holding company.” Apple: The company was first alerted to its FaceTime bug, which enables users to eavesdrop on others, a week before it took any action, according to a letter provided to The New York Times. The news raised concerns about Apple’s quality assurances and response times. Philippines: A grenade lobbed into a mosque in the city of Zamboanga killed two Muslim religious leaders, the second attack in a matter of days on a place of worship in the country’s restive south. Bangkok: Hundreds of schools in the Thai capital are closed for the rest of the week because of extreme air pollution. Bangkok is among the 10 cities with the foulest air on the planet; like the other Asian cities that crowd that list, it is afflicted by a toxic mix of unchecked urbanization, rapid industrialization, a car-crazy populace and lax regulations. South Korea: A political ally of President Moon Jae-in was sentenced to two years in prison for conspiring with a blogger to illegally sway public opinion before presidential elections in 2017. No evidence has emerged that Mr. Moon was aware of the effort. Australia: Indigenous people are overcoming the legacy of the country’s racist policies, finding success as entrepreneurs and a path toward combating stereotypes. Iran: The country’s government and entrepreneurs are beginning to realize the potential of Bitcoin, which is difficult to trace and could help Iran evade crippling U.S. sanctions. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Looking for a gluten-free treat? Flourless cocoa cookies will do the trick. A guide to buying couch throws, winter or summer. How to save on your next Apple purchase. Where does the term “polar vortex” come from? The word “vortex,” derived from the Latin for “to turn,” has been in use since at least the 1600s, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It’s cited in centuries-old scientific theories to mean a swirl of something around a central axis. The first pairing of “polar” and “vortex” is widely credited to an article published in 1853, in a magazine Charles Dickens edited. The author, John Capper, was a merchant and journalist who lived in what’s now Sri Lanka. His article, “Air Maps,” was a somewhat florid account of the state of the relatively new science regarding wind, a crucial factor for nautical travel and trade in the era before marine engines. The patterns of the Earth’s major winds could be tracked, Capper wrote, and one “whirled about the pole in a continued circular gale: at last, reaching the great polar vortex.” These days, we know the polar vortex as those swirling winds breaking out of the polar region, bringing frigid temperatures south. James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g ", "id": "5c51fef53a125f5075c072aa", "date": "2019-01-30T19:45:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change, Australia, President Trump: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good morning.  Earth’s temperatures spike, Australia locks out a wealthy political donor and Chinese workers protest worsening conditions. Here’s the latest:  NASA scientists announced that the Earth’s average surface temperature for 2018 was more than one degree Celsius above the average of the late 19th century — among the highest in nearly 140 years of record keeping. The trend is unmistakable. The last five years have been the five warmest on record. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.” Analysis: What sets the recent warming apart from the past is its relative suddenness and its clear correlation with increased levels of greenhouse gas emissions produced by human activity. A reminder: To avoid the most catastrophic consequences of climate change, scientists have said that global temperatures must not rise by more than two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels (meaning those in the era before the Industrial Revolution, when humans began pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere). Even an increase of 1.5 degrees will have dire consequences, a U.N. report has found, but despite a global climate compact, it appears likely that Earth’s temperatures will rise beyond the two-degree threshold. As families gathered for the Lunar New Year, many workers said they were struggling to pay basic expenses, like food and rent. Over the last year, thousands across the country have held small scale protests to fight efforts by businesses to cut their hours and hold back wages — a stark example of the destabilising impacts of China’s economic slowdown. The protests present a growing challenge for President Xi Jinping, who has propagated the “Chinese Dream” — his vision for greater wealth and a fairer society. They also undermine the main philosophical pillar of the Communist Party: the protection of workers. Details: At least 1,700 protests or strikes have been recorded in the last year, according to an advocacy group in Hong Kong that tracks labor disputes. Given stepped up censorship, many more are likely to have gone unreported. The authorities have detained more than 150 people, including taxi drivers, teachers, construction workers and student activists. In other news from China: Officials in Shanghai are investigating reports that a pharmaceutical company sold more than 12,000 units of a blood plasma product contaminated with H.I.V. Australian officials confirmed that they had revoked permanent residency for Huang Xiangmo, a Beijing-linked developer who has lived in Sydney since 2011, in a widening conflict over Chinese influence. They also rejected his citizen application. Background: Mr. Huang was leading an organization connected to the Chinese Communist Party that promotes Beijing’s foreign policy when he donated millions of dollars to both major parties. He also financed a think tank run by a former Australian foreign minister who has been reliably pro-China. Though foreign donations are legal in Australia, Mr. Huang has drawn increasing suspicion that reflects a deeper skepticism of China’s efforts to shape Australian policies. Mr. Huang has denied that his donations have been tied to Beijing. What’s next? Mr. Huang has the right to appeal, but in the meantime, he is stranded overseas. It’s also unclear whether his family can stay in Australia. A day after President Trump denounced “ridiculous partisan investigations” in his State of the Union speech, Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House Democrats wouldn’t back down from holding his administration accountable. “It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” she said. Fellow Democrats immediately pushed ahead with several inquiries, including one focused on Mr. Trump’s tax returns. Catch up: Here are our takeaways from Mr. Trump’s speech and a fact check of his claims. North Korea: The president revealed that he planned to sit down with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, on Feb. 27 and 28 in Vietnam. A senior American negotiator, Stephen Biegun, has arrived in Pyongyang to sort out the crucial details. Progress toward the denuclearization of North Korea has stalled since Mr. Trump first met with Mr. Kim in Singapore in June. Go deeper: The State of the Union put the Democrats’ resurgence on full display, from the striking sea of white attire to their reluctance to applaud the president, writes our chief Washington correspondent. Islamic State: Thousands of people have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz as government forces and U.S.-backed fighters close in on the last bit of Syrian land under the militant group’s control. But the Islamic State still has thousands of fighters in the region, and it is flourishing overseas, including in the Philippines and Nigeria. India: A government religious board that initially opposed allowing women into the centuries-old Sabarimala Temple reversed course, saying women have the right to worship there. Fast fashion: A new report has found that much of India’s garment manufacturing industry is made up of girls and women from oppressed ethnic communities who work in informal, unregulated settings, earning as little as 15 cents per hour. China: At least eight people were killed and seven wounded in a knife attack in the northwest Gansu Province as the country was celebrating the Lunar New Year. The local police said the attacker, who had been drinking, confessed and said he was seeking revenge for his wife’s affair. Brexit: Prime Minister Theresa May heads to Brussels today to try to salvage her plan to leave the E.U. On Wednesday, the president of the European Council said there was a “special place in hell” for those who promoted the British withdrawal without offering a credible plan. Siemens: E.U. antitrust authorities blocked the German company’s plans to merge its train unit with Alstom of France, killing a deal that was pitched as a counterbalance to competition from China’s entry into the European market. Russia: Alarmed that the Trump administration scrapped a Cold War-era arms control treaty, President Vladimir Putin warned that his country was working on developing new “hypersonic” missiles that could travel more than five times the speed of sound. But some experts see a bluff, noting that Russia can’t afford an arms race.  Did a seal eat your thumb drive? A biologist in New Zealand discovered a USB drive in the feces of a leopard seal and is trying to find the owner of the vacation photos and videos on the memory stick. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Treat yourself to a homemade bistro dinner with blue-cheese hanger steak and endive-herb salad. Pillows, throws, trays and bowls make a more inviting living room. Strenuous exercise may protect our heart from some of the problems it helps cause. A recent letter to the editor took The Times to task for not running enough letters from women. We asked one of the letters editors, Sue Mermelstein, to explain how The Times responded. The fact that our letters page skews male is something we’ve struggled with. The letter from Kimberly Probolus gave us a perfect opportunity to address it. When we published it, we also urged more women to write, and committed to work toward parity. We’ve already seen an uptick in correspondence from women, thoughtful and telling. “It has never occurred to me that someone would want to hear my voice,” one said. Men and women alike expressed concern that we might begin selecting letters on the basis of gender rather than merit. We won’t, but we are inviting letters from a broader range of readers, via newsletters like this one, the Reader Center and The Times’s social media. This weekend we plan to publish readers’ thoughts on why women are underrepresented in opinion pages. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g ", "id": "5c5b34f23a125f5075c08595", "date": "2019-02-06T19:25:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change: How Can Manhattan be Protected? Make It Bigger", "full_text": " After Hurricane Sandy flooded Lower Manhattan and caused massive damage to the city’s financial center, climate scientists agreed it was only a matter of time before a new superstorm would bring the same kind of damage — or worse. That realization, in part, led Mayor Bill de Blasio to embrace an unconventional solution: Make Manhattan bigger. To safeguard the area from the effects of climate change, including storm surges and rising sea levels, the city is proposing artificially extending the southern tip of Manhattan. The idea would be to use landfill in front of the financial district and South Street Seaport to extend the coastline of the island by as much as 500 feet into the East River, creating a rising berm that would, at its highest point, be well above future sea levels. The plan is similar to a 2013 proposal by Mr. de Blasio's predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, who called for creating a development, much like Battery Park City, along the East River, which would have been at least partly financed by developers interested in building residential or office towers on the new land. But Mr. de Blasio’s plan and an accompanying study were short on details, and the mayor said the city did not have the estimated $10 billion it would take to pay for it. It would also have to go through environmental reviews and would be subject to input from the community, all obstacles that could alter or block the plan. The mayor said the project should be financed by the federal government, which he said was unlikely as long as President Trump was in office, given Mr. Trump’s skeptical view of climate change. Mr. de Blasio initially revealed the proposal in an online essay posted by New York Magazine on Wednesday night, headlined “My New Plan to Climate-Proof Lower Manhattan.” He wrapped the plan in the cloak of the Green New Deal, the proposal for a massive federal program to finance alternative energy technology and other initiatives aimed at building an ecologically sustainable economy, championed by, among others, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, has been toying with the idea of running for president, and since the start of the year he has made bold announcements aimed at gaining national attention. Earlier this year, he announced what he said was a universal health care system for city residents, but on closer scrutiny it amounted to a relatively small increase in the budget for the city hospital system. The climate proposal, although couched in planet-saving terms, was largely a variation of earlier plans. Mr. de Blasio said on Thursday that he did not know what would go on the new land created under his plan. He said that it might be open space and parks or that it could also contain buildings. “Our focus is not private-sector development as it was” in the previous administration, Mr. de Blasio said at a news conference on West Street. “Our focus is on resiliency.” He called his plan “audacious,” adding, “We had to come to grips with the sheer magnitude of what had to be done.” Margaret Chin, a councilwoman who represents Lower Manhattan, said she was “sounding the alarm” about the potential for development on any new land that is created. “You want to extend the shore line to protect the inland and not allow private developers to seize the opportunity to build tall buildings and take all the views,” said Ms. Chin. The area should remain as open space and the federal government should pay for resiliency measures, she added. Mr. de Blasio’s plan also included some less ambitious elements for which the city has the financing. The city will spend $165 million to elevate the wharf and esplanade in Battery Park and to create a protective berm at the back of the park. And the city committed spending $200 million to build what officials called “flip-up barriers” along a nearly mile-long stretch of shoreline north of the Brooklyn Bridge, which could be activated to block a storm surge. Construction of both those projects would begin in 2021. “They’re certainly right to identify the climate and flooding risks to New York City and to Lower Manhattan, but I question the extent they’re considering the impact on the rest of the city,” said Nilda Mesa, a former director of the Mayor’s Office of Sustainability under Mr. de Blasio, who is now an adjunct professor at Columbia University. “Water goes where it will and you cannot contain it. If you’re going to keep it from coming ashore in one place it still has to move and what does that mean for Brooklyn, Queens and New Jersey and the Bronx?” In pointing out the need for the plan, Mr. de Blasio emphasized the importance of Lower Manhattan for the city and the country, citing the area’s $60 billion worth of property, and characterizing it as “one of the core centers of the American economy” that contains one out of every 10 jobs in New York City. “The security of Lower Manhattan should be a national priority,” the mayor said. But Francisco Moya, a city councilman from Queens, called the city’s resiliency planning too “Manhattan-centric.” “It can’t be a tale of two cities. The outer boroughs should not suffer because of rich development happening in more affluent areas,” Mr. Moya said in an interview. “The people of Queens pay taxes and we should not be ignored when it comes to the issue of climate change.”    ", "id": "5c8ad7a049f0eacbf105d267", "date": "2019-03-14T22:35:51+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Virginia, Climate Change, Donald Trump: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with another official in Virginia admitting to having worn blackface, new data that adds to a global warming trend, and the reversal of a contentious tipping policy. The political future of the state’s top three elected officials is in doubt after Attorney General Mark Herring acknowledged on Wednesday that he, too, had worn blackface at a party in college. Days earlier, he had called for the resignation of Gov. Ralph Northam, who had admitted wearing blackface. Hours after Mr. Herring’s disclosure, a woman who has accused Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax of sexually assaulting her in 2004 issued a statement describing her accusation in detail. Mr. Fairfax has adamantly denied the allegations.  What’s next: Mr. Northam has withstood calls for his resignation, but if all three men were to step down without immediate replacements, Kirk Cox, the Republican House speaker, would become governor. Mr. Northam, Mr. Fairfax and Mr. Herring are all Democrats. NASA scientists announced on Wednesday that the Earth’s average surface temperature last year was the fourth highest in nearly 140 years. The five warmest years in recorded history have been the last five. Our science reporters explain: “While this planet has seen hotter days in prehistoric times, and colder ones in the modern era, what sets recent warming apart in the sweep of geologic time is the relatively sudden rise in temperatures and its clear correlation with increasing levels of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane produced by human activity.” Yesterday: Two House committees held their first hearings on climate change in years. For you: In a database of more than 3,800 cities, about 83 percent recorded higher-than-normal average temperatures last year. See how your city compares. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Wednesday that the House wouldn’t be deterred by the president’s denunciation in his State of the Union speech of “ridiculous partisan investigations.”  “It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” she said. A subcommittee that is pursuing Mr. Trump’s tax returns is scheduled to hold its first meeting today, and another panel began an inquiry on Wednesday into whether Russia and other foreign powers may be influencing the president. Looking back: The scene at the Capitol on Tuesday also displayed the resurrection of Democrats as a force in Congress, our chief Washington correspondent writes. Looking ahead: The president’s speech contained suggestions of what his 2020 campaign could focus on, including what he says is the threat of socialism.  In the past two weeks, thousands of people — many hungry or injured — have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz, the last sliver of land under Islamic State control in Iraq or Syria. ISIS once controlled an area the size of Britain, but the militants are now trapped in a slice of Deir al-Zour Province about the size of Central Park. Military commanders are negotiating an end to the siege. Closer look: Our correspondent in Syria writes, “While Baghuz is the last vestige of the Islamic State’s caliphate in the region where it was born, the caliphate was always a global project, with 16 of its 35 ‘provinces’ outside Iraq and Syria. Several of those overseas affiliates are flourishing, including in the Philippines and Nigeria.” Before she died last year at 42, Julie Yip-Williams wrote a richly detailed blog about her diagnosis with Stage IV colon cancer. It was also a meditation on hope, love, family and her life’s struggles after she was born blind in Vietnam.  “The Unwinding of the Miracle,” a memoir based on her blog, was published this week, exhorting its readers: “Live while you’re living, friends.” Read our review.  British leader in Brussels: Prime Minister Theresa May is scheduled to meet with European Union officials today to try to salvage her Brexit plan. On Wednesday, the president of the European Council, Donald Tusk, said there was a “special place in hell” for those who pushed for Britain’s withdrawal without offering a credible plan. Tipping policy is reversed: When contract workers accused Instacart, a delivery service, of wage theft, they scored the latest win for workers in the gig economy, our tech columnist writes. The company had counted tips toward the guaranteed minimum payments that it offered its workers. More accusations against Nobel laureate: Four women came forward in a 48-hour period to accuse Óscar Arias Sánchez, a Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former president of Costa Rica, of unprovoked and unwanted touching or sexual assault. Mr. Arias denied the initial accusation; his lawyer said he would have no comment on the subsequent ones. The 2020 election: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, has been driving around the country, alone, as he thinks about running for president. His rebel-in-moderation youth offers parallels to his search for direction now. Women’s empowerment initiative: President Trump is expected to announce today an effort to help bring economic security to 50 million women across the world by 2025. The initiative is being promoted by his eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump. Snapshot: Above, a salute for the 67th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth II’s accession to the throne on Wednesday in London. She became queen at 25 and is the world’s longest-reigning monarch. New emojis: The 59 new symbols that are expected to come out this year emphasize inclusivity. (They also include a sloth, a waffle and a contentious one-piece bathing suit.) Late-night comedy: President Trump’s childhood home in Queens is on the market. “Just to mess with him, Nancy Pelosi’s going to buy it and turn it into a Mexican restaurant,” Jimmy Fallon said.  What we’re reading: This Vulture article on “Baby Shark.” Bonnie Wertheim, a Styles editor, writes: “The catchy children’s song that recently broke the Billboard Hot 100 started decades ago as a campfire chant that most people only vaguely remember.” Cook: Treat yourself to a homemade bistro dinner with blue-cheese hanger steak and endive-herb salad. Listen: To a hard smack of good cheer from the Lil Peep archives. “I’ve Been Waiting” has Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy as the guest of honor. See: In Charles Busch’s latest show, he doesn’t channel any of the drag characters that made him famous, choosing instead to “see what it’s like stripping off the veil.” Read: “Shameless,” a call for a reformation of Christian messaging about sex by the pastor Nadia Bolz-Weber, is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. Smarter Living: Understanding your genealogy is a fascinating reckoning with the stories we carry. If you want to make a family tree, one way to start is with the 1940 census, the most recent one publicly available. And OurBlackAncestry.com has free tutorials to help find elusive records for those descended from enslaved Africans. During the winter, protecting your skin from the elements no longer means layering on uncomfortably thick salves. Many of the latest heavy-duty creams are surprisingly light.  A recent letter to the editor took The Times to task for not running enough letters from women. We asked one of the letters editors, Sue Mermelstein, to explain how The Times responded. The fact that our letters page skews male is something we’ve struggled with. A letter from Kimberly Probolus gave us a perfect opportunity to address it. When we published it, we also urged more women to write, and committed to work toward parity. We’ve already seen an uptick in correspondence from women that has been thoughtful and telling. “It has never occurred to me that someone would want to hear my voice,” one said. Women and men alike expressed concern that we might begin selecting letters on the basis of gender rather than merit. We won’t, but we are inviting letters from a broader range of readers, via newsletters like this one, and via the Reader Center and The Times’s social media. This weekend, we plan to publish readers’ thoughts on why women are underrepresented in opinion pages. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the sexual abuse of nuns by priests.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Trigger a bleep (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Felicia Nimue Ackerman, a philosophy professor at Brown University, has had over 300 letters to the editor published. Her efforts earned her a write-up in The New Yorker.  Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5c5c0abe3a125f5075c0876f", "date": "2019-02-07T10:38:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "China, Venezuela, Climate Change: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  China has a sweeping vision for its remote steppes, Venezuela’s president offers to negotiate, and President Trump feuds with his intelligence chiefs. Here’s the latest:  The barely inhabited steppes of Central Asia — near the one point on earth farthest from a sea or ocean — are in for a transmogrification. The Chinese government has decided to shape the region that straddles its border with Kazakhstan into the control center of its vast, trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative. A village there named Khorgos, which its boosters say is poised to become the next Dubai, will soon be the world’s largest dry port — an inland shipping and logistics hub. Background: Beijing has embarked on a mammoth project to link China to the rest of Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Russia and Europe with a latticed network of trains, highways and shipping corridors. Critics have described it as “debt trap” diplomacy and a new kind of colonialism. One sticking point: Beijing’s detention of hundreds of thousands of Uighur, Kazakhs and other minorities in internment camps in the nearby Xinjiang region has not helped its standing with the Kazakh government. As protests broke out in Venezuela again, President Nicolás Maduro said he was open to sitting down with the opposition, but it was unclear whether the offer was genuine or just a delaying tactic. In an interview with a Russian news agency, Mr. Maduro also rejected calls for a new election. His re-election last year has been widely disputed, and the U.S. and a number of European countries have called for a fresh vote.  In a video, Mr. Maduro warned the U.S. that military intervention in his country “would lead to a Vietnam worse than they can imagine.” Background: Over the last week, Juan Guaidó, the leader of the opposition, has received growing recognition around the world as interim president. The U.S., in an effort to oust Mr. Maduro, has imposed harsh oil sanctions that economists worry could unravel a Venezuelan economy already in vertiginous decline.  On the streets: Mr. Maduro has hit back viciously, human rights groups and others say, dispatching security forces to crush dissent in poor neighborhoods that have turned on his government. The deadly operations have alarmed even some of the president’s traditional supporters. And his reliance on a special police unit — relatively new and shrouded in secrecy — may be a sign of disarray and waning loyalty in the military. Another angle: Russia has been supporting Mr. Maduro from the sidelines and directing opprobrium at the U.S. It is unlikely to do more than that, our Moscow bureau chief writes. In Opinion: Mr. Guaidó compares the movement he is leading against Mr. Maduro to the uprising that unseated the Venezuelan dictator Marcos Pérez Jiménez in 1958, and writes that “the military’s withdrawal of support from Mr. Maduro is crucial to enabling a change in government.” Unnerved by fears of a rushed American deal with Taliban insurgents, President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan sent a letter to President Trump offering to lower the costs of keeping U.S. troops in the country. The letter suggested reducing the number of American troops to as few as 3,000.  Context: U.S. diplomats and Taliban representatives both say they have made significant progress in peace talks that offer a path for America’s withdrawal from Afghanistan. But the Afghan government has been left out of the loop, frustrating Mr. Ghani. Afghan officials say they see their worst fear coming to pass — a Trump administration with little regard for what withdrawal means for Afghanistan’s 35 million people.  But many members of the Afghan political elite support an American exit, isolating Mr. Ghani. A new study has found that rising ocean temperatures correlate with the widespread deaths of the sunflower star, a species of starfish native to the Pacific Ocean. Details: From 2013 to 2015, the Pacific became unusually warm. At the same time, millions of starfish started succumbing to a wasting disease. The study found that there was a correlation between the two events. Background: The ocean, which absorbs 90 percent of atmospheric heat trapped by greenhouse gases, has been warming faster than previously thought, which in turn is killing off marine ecosystems, raising sea levels and creating more extreme weather patterns. Speaking of extreme weather: Frightening cold was entrenched over the middle of the U.S. It brought much of society there to a shivering halt and was believed to be responsible for at least eight deaths.  President Trump: His separation from U.S. national intelligence chiefs seemed almost complete as he lashed out against their annual global threat assessment, released Tuesday. He said they were “naïve” about the dangers of Iran and insisted the chances for complete denuclearization of North Korea were “decent.”  Economy: In a major change, the Federal Reserve has suspended its previous plans to continue raising interest rates this year, citing a slowing global economy.  U.S.-Mexico border: A Times correspondent and photographer are on the 19th day of their drive along the roughly 1,900-mile border between the U.S. and Mexico. In the remote, tiny Mexican town of Boquillas del Carmen, they found tourism had dried up because of the partial government shutdown that, at least temporarily, just ended. The Netherlands: A church’s nonstop 96-day service came to an end after its organizers received confirmation from the government that a family of refugees sheltering inside the church would no longer face immediate deportation from the Netherlands — although their fate remains in limbo.  Brexit: The stickiest wicket is the so-called Irish backstop, a scheme for averting a physical border ever falling in Northern Ireland. The problem may not have a solution. Meanwhile, Parliament is looking worse for wear after this week giving Prime Minister Theresa May a mandate to do what is likely impossible: renegotiate her plan with the E.U. If Britain crashes out without a deal, food retailers warn they’ll be the first to feel it. E.U.: The churning chaos of Brexit has brought member states closer together and widely silenced populists who had only recently been calling for their own countries to leave the union.  Facebook: Despite privacy scandals, the social media company said that its revenue and profits climbed in the most recent quarter as did the number of new users, although there are questions about whether Facebook really knows how many fake accounts there are. And a major new study offers a glimpse of what deleting Facebook might do for your life.  Carlos Ghosn: The embattled auto executive said in an interview from a Tokyo jail that he was a victim of “plot and treason” by other Nissan leaders for his plans to integrate the company with its alliance partners — Renault and Mitsubishi — “under one holding company.” E-cigarettes: A yearlong trial in Britain found that e-cigarettes were almost twice as successful as products like patches or gum for quitting smoking. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Looking for a gluten-free treat? Flourless cocoa cookies will do the trick. A guide to buying couch throws, winter or summer. How to save on your next Apple purchase. Where does the term “polar vortex” come from? The word “vortex,” derived from the Latin for “to turn,” has been in use since at least the 1600s, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It’s cited in centuries-old scientific theories to mean a swirl of something around a central axis. The first pairing of “polar” and “vortex” is widely credited to an article published in 1853, in a magazine Charles Dickens edited. The author, John Capper, was a merchant and journalist who lived in what’s now Sri Lanka. His article, “Air Maps,” was a somewhat florid account of the state of the relatively new science regarding wind, a crucial factor for nautical travel and trade in the era before marine engines. The patterns of the Earth’s major winds could be tracked, Capper wrote, and one “whirled about the pole in a continued circular gale: at last, reaching the great polar vortex.” These days, we know the polar vortex as those swirling winds breaking out of the polar region, bringing frigid temperatures south. James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c527dfc3a125f5075c073b8", "date": "2019-01-31T04:47:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Over 4,200 Amazon Workers Push for Climate Change Action, Including Cutting Some Ties to Big Oil", "full_text": " SEATTLE — Employees at big tech companies have pushed back against their employers for working with the military and law enforcement offices, and demanded better treatment of women and minorities. Now, thousands of them are also taking on climate change. This week, more than 4,200 Amazon employees called on the company to rethink how it addresses and contributes to a warming planet. The action is the largest employee-driven movement on climate change to take place in the influential tech industry. The workers say the company needs to make firm commitments to reduce its carbon footprint across its vast operations, not make piecemeal or vague announcements. And they say that Amazon should stop offering custom cloud-computing services that help the oil and gas industry find and extract more fossil fuels. The goal for Amazon’s leaders and employees is “that climate change is something they think about whenever a business decision is being made,” said Rajit Iftikhar, a software engineer in Amazon’s retail business. “We want to make Amazon a better company. It is a natural extension of that.” The letter adds support for a new tactic among activist tech workers: using the stock they receive as compensation to agitate for change. Like other shareholders, they can file a resolution urging a particular corporate change that investors vote on at a company’s annual meeting. Historically, this approach has been used by outside activist investors, not employees. The Amazon employees signing the letter, who made their names public, are pushing Amazon to approve a shareholder resolution that would force the company to develop a plan to address its carbon footprint. The resolution was filed by more than two dozen current and former employees late last year, and it could come up for a vote next month. It is rare for tech employees, even some of the most activist ones, to attach their names to public criticism of their employers. While thousands walked out at Google over the company’s handling of sexual harassment claims, for example, few names were connected to the effort. “It’s exactly what Amazon has taught me to be: bold, audacious, and tackle big problems,” said Maren Costa, a principal user-experience designer who has been with the company for almost 15 years. Amazon has more than 65,000 corporate and tech employees in the United States. More people signed the letter than Amazon employs at any of its individual domestic offices outside Seattle and the Bay Area. An Amazon spokesman, Sam Kennedy, did not comment directly on the letter but said the company was addressing climate change in many ways. “Earlier this year, we announced that we will share our companywide carbon footprint, along with related goals and programs,” he said in a statement. “We also announced Shipment Zero, our vision to make all Amazon shipments net-zero carbon, with 50 percent of all shipments net zero by 2030.” More than its other tech peers, Amazon is particularly vulnerable to criticism about its carbon footprint. It ships millions of items large and small. The data centers that run its cloud operations need power to stay cool, and its cloud offerings and artificial intelligence put it in touch with customers in big businesses, including the energy industry. Amazon in 2014 announced a “long-term commitment to achieve 100 percent renewable energy usage” for its data centers, but it did not set a deadline. On Monday, it said it was planning three new wind farms. It was its first announcement of a new renewable energy project for its data centers in more than two years, even as its cloud business more than doubled in that time. The workers are urging Amazon to adopt a much more ambitious effort. In late November and early December, 16 current and former Amazon employees filed shareholder proposals. And once they went public with their campaign, a dozen more joined, including Chris Page, who used to run a part of Amazon’s sustainability work. In January, a group of the workers met with Amazon’s sustainability team and investor relations officials to discuss their proposal. “It was clear to me that we didn’t have a companywide plan that could address climate change at the scale and urgency that we need,” Ms. Costa said. “That team didn’t have the resources to do the job that I think they know they need to do.” Mr. Kennedy, the company spokesman, said, “In operations alone, we have over 200 scientists, engineers and product designers dedicated exclusively to inventing new ways to leverage our scale for the good of customers and the planet.” The employees worked to build more internal support. In mid-February, their email list grew from 600 to more than 1,200 in about a day, said Emily Cunningham, a designer who has worked at Amazon since 2013. “We don’t have a lot of culture of dissent at Amazon, but it resonated,” she said. A few days later, on Presidents’ Day, Amazon announced the Shipment Zero initiative. Amazon also said in a blog post that it would disclose its companywide carbon footprint this year. The next day, Amazon contacted the people behind the resolution to meet again. The company wanted to “ask about willingness to withdraw in light of the disclosures in the blog and those to come later this year,” Mark Hoffman, a top lawyer at Amazon, wrote to them in an email. Shipment Zero had been in the works for a while. But to the activists, the timing felt like a victory. “It was a direct response to the pressure that this small group of people have been applying,” Ms. Costa said. “It gave me hope that we could make a difference.” Then the activists saw an article in Gizmodo, a technology news site, that outlined how Amazon’s cloud computing division was building special offerings for oil and gas companies. On its website, Amazon says its customers include BP and Royal Dutch Shell, and its products can “find oil faster,” “recover more oil” and “reduce the cost per barrel.” In a second meeting with Amazon, the workers raised the oil industry connections with the company’s sustainability team; its members did not seem to be aware of the business, according to several employees at the meeting. “That really showed us Amazon is not taking climate change seriously if the highest levels of the sustainability team are not even aware that we have an oil and gas business,” said Ms. Cunningham, who was at the meeting. In mid-March, Amazon informed the activists that the company’s board would recommend that shareholders oppose the resolution. “The board agrees that planning for potential disruptions posed by climate change and reducing companywide dependence on fossil fuels are important,” the formal recommendation said. “However, the board believes that Amazon is already doing this.” So the employees put together the public letter, which outlines six principles they think should guide a plan, including “ending all custom solutions specifically designed for oil and gas extraction and exploration.” They began sharing the letter in small circles on Monday, and then more broadly on Tuesday. By midafternoon, more than 2,000 employees had signed on. On Wednesday morning, they released the letter with more than 3,500 Amazon employees putting their name behind the cause. By the afternoon, that total had risen to over 4,200. Amazon typically sends out the proxy ballot for investors to vote on shareholder resolutions in mid-April. An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Chris Page’s role at Amazon. She ran a part of the company’s sustainability work, not all of it. Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweise. ", "id": "5cae171c49f0eacbf1f825d6", "date": "2019-04-10T16:16:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Tiny Swiss Company That Thinks It Can Help Stop Climate Change", "full_text": " Feature Two European entrepreneurs want to remove carbon from the air at prices cheap enough to matter. Christoph Gebald, left, and Jan Wurzbacher, the founders of Climeworks, at their plant in Hinwil, Switzerland.CreditCreditLuca Locatelli for The New York Times Just over a century ago in Ludwigshafen, Germany, a scientist named Carl Bosch assembled a team of engineers to exploit a new technique in chemistry. A year earlier, another German chemist, Fritz Haber, hit upon a process to pull nitrogen (N) from the air and combine it with hydrogen (H) to produce tiny amounts of ammonia (NH₃). But Haber’s process was delicate, requiring the maintenance of high temperatures and high pressure. Bosch wanted to figure out how to adapt Haber’s discovery for commercial purposes — as we would say today, to “scale it up.” Anyone looking at the state of manufacturing in Europe around 1910, Bosch observed, could see that the task was daunting: The technology simply didn’t exist. Over the next decade, however, Bosch and his team overcame a multitude of technological and metallurgical challenges. He chronicled them in his 1932 acceptance speech for the Nobel Prize for Chemistry — an honor he won because the Haber-Bosch process, as it came to be known, changed the world. His breakthrough made possible the production of ammonia on an industrial scale, providing the world with cheap and abundant fertilizer. The scientist and historian Vaclav Smil called Haber-Bosch “the most important technical invention of the 20th century.” Bosch had effectively removed the historical bounds on crop yields, so much so that he was widely credited with making “bread from air.” By some estimates, Bosch’s work made possible the lives of more than two billion human beings over the last 100 years. What the Haber-Bosch method had going for it, from the very start, was a ready market. Fertilizer was already in high demand, but it came primarily from limited natural reserves in far-flung locales — bird droppings scraped from remote islands near Peru, for instance, or mineral stores of nitrogen dug out of the Chilean desert. Because synthetic ammonia competed with existing products, it was able to follow a timeworn pattern of innovation. In much the same way that LEDs have supplanted fluorescent and incandescent bulbs (which in turn had displaced kerosene lamps and wax candles), a novel product or process often replaces something already in demand. If it is better or cheaper — and especially if it is better and cheaper — it usually wins in the marketplace. Haber-Bosch did exactly that. It may now be that another gas — carbon dioxide (CO₂) — can be removed from the air for commercial purposes, and that its removal could have a profound effect on the future of humanity. But it’s almost certainly too soon to say for sure. One sunny morning last October, several engineers from a Swiss firm called Climeworks ambled onto the roof of a power-generating waste-incineration plant in Hinwil, a village about 30 minutes outside Zurich. The technicians had in front of them 12 large devices, stacked in two rows of six, that resembled oversize front-loading clothes dryers. These were “direct air capture” machines, which soon would begin collecting carbon dioxide from air drawn in through their central ducts. Once trapped, the CO₂ would then be siphoned into large tanks and trucked to a local Coca-Cola bottler, where it would become the fizz in a soft drink. [Is It O.K. to Tinker With the Environment to Fight Climate Change?] The machines themselves require a significant amount of energy. They depend on electric fans to pull air into the ducts and over a special material, known as a sorbent, laced with granules that chemically bind with CO₂; periodic blasts of heat then release the captured gas from the sorbent, with customized software managing the whole catch-and-release cycle. Climeworks had installed the machines on the roof of the power plant to tap into the plant’s low-carbon electricity and the heat from its incineration system. A few dozen yards away from the new installation sat an older stack of Climeworks machines, 18 in total, that had been whirring on the same rooftop for more than a year. So far, these machines had captured about 1,000 metric tons (or about 1,100 short tons) of carbon dioxide from the air and fed it, by pipeline, to an enormous greenhouse nearby, where it was plumping up tomatoes, eggplants and mâche. During a tour of the greenhouse, Paul Ruser, the manager, suggested I taste the results. “Here, try one,” he said, handing me a crisp, ripe cucumber he plucked from a nearby vine. It was the finest direct-air-capture cucumber I’d ever had. Climeworks’s rooftop plant represents something new in the world: the first direct-air-capture venture in history seeking to sell CO₂ by the ton. When the company’s founders, Christoph Gebald and Jan Wurzbacher, began openly discussing their plans to build a business several years ago, they faced a deluge of skepticism. “I would say nine out of 10 people reacted critically,” Gebald told me. “The first thing they said was: ‘This will never work technically.’ And finally in 2017 we convinced them it works technically, since we built the big plant in Hinwil. But once we convinced them that it works technically, they would say, ‘Well, it will never work economically.’ ” For the moment, skeptics of Climeworks’s business plan are correct: The company is not turning a profit. To build and install the 18 units at Hinwil, hand-assembled in a second-floor workshop in Zurich, cost between $3 million and $4 million, which is the primary reason it costs the firm between $500 and $600 to remove a metric ton of CO₂ from the air. Even as the company has attracted about $50 million in private investments and grants, it faces the same daunting task that confronted Carl Bosch a century ago: How much can it bring costs down? And how fast can it scale up? Gebald and Wurzbacher believe the way to gain a commercial foothold is to sell their expensive CO₂ to agriculture or beverage companies. Not only do these companies require CO₂ anyway, some also seem willing to pay a premium for a vital ingredient they can use to help market their products as eco-friendly. Still, greenhouses and soda bubbles together represent a small global market — perhaps six million metric tons of CO₂ annually. And Gebald and Wurzbacher did not get into carbon capture to grow mâche or put bubbles in Fanta. They believe that over the next seven years they can bring expenses down to a level that would enable them to sell CO₂ into more lucrative markets. Air-captured CO₂ can be combined with hydrogen and then fashioned into any kind of fossil-fuel substitute you want. Instead of making bread from air, you can make fuels from air. Already, Climeworks and another company, Carbon Engineering, which is based in British Columbia, have moved aggressively on this idea; the Canadians have even lined up investors (including Bill Gates) to produce synthetic fuel at large industrial plants from air-captured CO₂. The ultimate goal for air capture, however, isn’t to turn it into a product — at least not in the traditional sense. What Gebald and Wurzbacher really want to do is to pull vast amounts of CO₂ out of the atmosphere and bury it, forever, deep underground, and sell that service as an offset. Climeworks’s captured CO₂ has already been injected deep into rock formations beneath Iceland; by the end of the year, the firm intends to deploy 50 units near Reykjavik to expand the operation. But at that point the company will be moving into uncharted economic territory — purveyors of a service that seems desperately needed to help slow climate change but does not, at present, replace anything on the consumer or industrial landscape. To complicate matters, a ton of buried CO₂ is not something that human beings or governments have shown much demand for. And so companies like Climeworks face a quandary: How do you sell something that never existed before, something that may never be cheap, into a market that is not yet real? Even the most enthusiastic believers in direct air capture stop short of describing it as a miracle technology. It’s more frequently described as an old idea — “scrubbers” that remove CO₂ have been used in submarines since at least the 1950s — that is being radically upgraded for a variety of new applications. It’s arguably the case, in fact, that when it comes to reducing our carbon emissions, direct air capture will be seen as an option that’s too expensive and too modest in impact. “The only way that direct air capture becomes meaningful is if we do all the other things we need to do promptly,” Hal Harvey, a California energy analyst who studies climate-friendly technologies and policies, told me recently. Harvey and others make the case that the biggest, fastest and cheapest gains in addressing atmospheric carbon will come from switching our power grid to renewable energy or low-carbon electricity; from transitioning to electric vehicles and imposing stricter mileage regulations on gas-powered cars and trucks; and from requiring more energy-efficient buildings and appliances. In short, the best way to start making progress toward a decarbonized world is not to rev up millions of air capture machines right now. It’s to stop putting CO₂ in the atmosphere in the first place. The future of carbon mitigation, however, is on a countdown timer, as atmospheric CO₂ concentrations have continued to rise. If the nations of the world were to continue on the current track, it would be impossible to meet the objectives of the 2016 Paris Agreement, which set a goal limiting warming to 2 degrees Celsius or, ideally, 1.5 degrees. And it would usher in a world of misery and economic hardship. Already, temperatures in some regions have climbed more than 1 degree Celsius, as a report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change noted last October. These temperature increases have led to an increase in droughts, heat waves, floods and biodiversity losses and make the chaos of 2 or 3 degrees’ additional warming seem inconceivable. A further problem is that maintaining today’s emissions path for too long runs the risk of doing irreparable damage to the earth’s ecosystems — causing harm that no amount of technological innovation can make right. “There is no reverse gear for natural systems,” Harvey says. “If they go, they go. If we defrost the tundra, it’s game over.” The same might be said for the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets, or our coral reefs. Such resources have an asymmetry in their natural architectures: They can take thousands or millions of years to form, but could reach conditions of catastrophic decline in just a few decades. At the moment, global CO₂ emissions are about 37 billion metric tons per year, and we’re on track to raise temperatures by 3 degrees Celsius by 2100. To have a shot at maintaining a climate suitable for humans, the world’s nations most likely have to reduce CO₂ emissions drastically from the current level — to perhaps 15 billion or 20 billion metric tons per year by 2030; then, through some kind of unprecedented political and industrial effort, we need to bring carbon emissions to zero by around 2050. In this context, Climeworks’s effort to collect 1,000 metric tons of CO₂ on a rooftop near Zurich might seem like bailing out the ocean one bucket at a time. Conceptually, however, it’s important. Last year’s I.P.C.C. report noted that it may be impossible to limit warming to 1.5 degrees by 2100 through only a rapid switch to clean energy, electric cars and the like. To preserve a livable environment we may also need to extract CO₂ from the atmosphere. As Wurzbacher put it, “if you take all these numbers from the I.P.C.C., you end up with something like eight to 10 billion tons — gigatons — of CO₂ that need to be removed from the air every year, if we are serious about 1.5 or 2 degrees.” There happens to be a name for things that can do this kind of extraction work: negative-emissions technologies, or NETs. Some NETs, like trees and plants, predate us and probably don’t deserve the label. Through photosynthesis, our forests take extraordinary amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and if we were to magnify efforts to reforest clear-cut areas — or plant new groves, a process known as afforestation — we could absorb billions more metric tons of carbon in future years. What’s more, we could grow crops specifically to absorb CO₂ and then burn them for power generation, with the intention of capturing the power-plant emissions and pumping them underground, a process known as bioenergy with carbon capture and storage, or BECCS. Other negative-emissions technologies include manipulating farmland soil or coastal wetlands so they will trap more atmospheric carbon and grinding up mineral formations so they will absorb CO₂ more readily, a process known as “enhanced weathering.” Negative emissions can be thought of as a form of time travel. Ever since the Industrial Revolution, human societies have produced an excess of CO₂, by taking carbon stores from deep inside the earth — in the form of coal, oil and gas — and from stores aboveground (mostly wood), then putting it into the atmosphere by burning it. It has become imperative to reverse the process — that is, take CO₂ out of the air and either restore it deep inside the earth or contain it within new surface ecosystems. This is certainly easier to prescribe than achieve. “All of negative emission is hard — even afforestation or reforestation,” Sally Benson, a professor of energy-resources engineering at Stanford, explains. “It’s not about saying, ‘I want to plant a tree.’ It’s about saying, ‘We want to plant a billion trees.’ ” Nevertheless, such practices offer a glimmer of hope for meeting future emissions targets. “We have to come to grips with the fact that we waited too long and that we took some options off the table,” Michael Oppenheimer, a Princeton scientist who studies climate and policy, told me. As a result, NETs no longer seem to be just interesting ideas; they look like necessities. And as it happens, the Climeworks machines on the rooftop do the work each year of about 36,000 trees. Last fall, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine published a lengthy study on carbon removal. Stephen Pacala, a Princeton professor who led the authors, pointed out to me that negative-emissions technologies have various strengths and drawbacks, and that a “portfolio” approach — pursue them all, then see which are the best — may be the shrewdest bet. If costs for direct air capture can be reduced, Pacala says he sees great promise, especially if the machines can offset emissions from economic sectors that for technological reasons will transition to zero carbon much more slowly than others. Commercial aviation, for instance, won’t be converted to running on solar power anytime soon. Jennifer Wilcox, a chemical-engineering professor at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, in Massachusetts, told me that air capture could likewise help counter the impact of several vital industries. “There are process emissions that come from producing iron and steel, cement and glass,” she says, “and any time you make these materials, there’s a chemical reaction that emits CO₂.” Direct air capture could even lessen the impacts of the Haber-Bosch processes for making fertilizer; by some estimates, that industry now accounts for 3 percent of all CO₂ emissions. Pacala equates the challenges confronting Climeworks and Carbon Engineering to what the wind- and solar-power industries faced in the 1970s and ’80s, when their products were expensive compared with fossil fuels. Those industries couldn’t rely on demand from the private sector alone. But some policymakers perceived tremendous environmental and public benefits if they could surmount that hurdle. Government investments in research, along with state and federal tax credits, helped the young industries expand. “Wind and solar are now the cheapest forms of energy in the right locations,” Pacala says. “The return on those investments, if you calculated it, would blow the doors off anything in your portfolio. It’s like investing in early Apple. So it’s a spectacular story of success. And direct air capture is precisely the same kind of problem, in which the only barrier is that it’s too costly.” [Thirty years ago, we had a chance to save the planet. Read about the decade we almost stopped climate change.] Most of Climeworks’s 60 employees work in a big industrial space in downtown Zurich, on two floors of a low-slung building that the company sublets from a German aerospace firm. Manufacturing operations are on the ground floor; the research labs are upstairs, along with a small suite of shared offices, a hallway kitchen and a hangout area. The place has the stark, casual feel of a tech start-up, with one exception: The walls are lined with oversize photos of pivotal moments in Climeworks’s young history — its ungainly early prototypes; the opening of the first Hinwil plant that collected CO₂ for the greenhouse. “It’s a little bit by accident that we are based in Switzerland,” Wurzbacher told me. He and Gebald both grew up in Germany and met as undergraduates at E.T.H. Zurich, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. “We met on Day 1, on the 20th of October of 2003,” Gebald recalled. “And on Day 1 we decided that we’d have a company.” Their aspiration was to be entrepreneurs, not to start a carbon-capture firm, but both men were drawn to research on renewable energy and reducing emissions. After they completed their master’s projects, they decided to create a direct-air-capture prototype and go into business. Both took the title of company director. Helped by a number of small grants, Climeworks was incorporated in 2009. The two men were not alone in trying to chip away at decades of carbon emissions. An American start-up, Global Thermostat, now finishing its first commercial plant in Alabama, began working on air-capture machines in 2010. And almost from the start, Gebald and Wurzbacher found themselves in a friendly competition with David Keith, the Harvard engineering professor who had just started Carbon Engineering in British Columbia. Keith’s company settled on a different air-capture technology — employing a higher-heat process, and a liquid solution to capture CO₂ — to brew synthetic fuels. Climeworks’s big advantage is that it can make smaller plants early, Keith told me: “I am crazy jealous. It’s because they’re using a modular design, and we’re not.” On the other hand, Keith said he believes his firm is closer to building a big plant that could capture carbon at a more reasonable cost and produce substantial amounts of fuel. “I don’t see a path for them to match this.” Gebald told me he thinks his and Keith’s companies will each succeed with differing approaches. For now, what all the founders have in common is a belief that the cost of capturing a ton of carbon will soon drop sharply. Their view is not always shared by outside observers. M.I.T.’s Howard Herzog, for instance, an engineer who has spent years looking at the potential for these machines, told me that he thinks the costs will remain between $600 and $1,000 per metric ton. Some of Herzog’s reasons for skepticism are highly technical and relate to the physics of separating gases. Some are more easily grasped. He points out that because direct-air-capture machines have to move tremendous amounts of air through a filter or solution to glean a ton of CO₂ — the gas, for all its global impact, makes up only about 0.04 percent of our atmosphere — the process necessitates large expenditures for energy and big equipment. What he has likewise observed, in analyzing similar industries that separate gases, suggests that translating spreadsheet projections for capturing CO₂ into real-world applications will reveal hidden costs. “I think there has been a lot of hype about this, and it’s not going to revolutionize anything,” he told me, adding that he thinks other negative-emissions technologies will prove cheaper. “At best it’s going to be a bit player.” Last year, when David Keith and his associates at Carbon Engineering published figures projecting that their carbon-capture technology could bring costs as low as $94 a metric ton, Herzog was not convinced. Keith nevertheless made the case to me that two new investors in Carbon Engineering — Chevron Technology Ventures and a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum — scrutinized his company’s numbers to an exhaustive degree and agreed the economics of the venture were solid enough to merit putting up substantial amounts in a $60 million investment round. Both Climeworks founders told me they agreed with Keith’s cost estimates, and saw a similar downward curve for their own technology. Climeworks’s current goal is to remove 1 percent of the world’s annual CO₂ emissions by the mid 2020s. Yet meeting such a benchmark, if it’s even possible, would require bringing the cost of direct air capture down by nearly an order of magnitude while maintaining and expanding their roster of clients substantially. At the moment, Wurzbacher and Gebald have planned for several generations of Climeworks machines, with each new model promising declining prices. “Basically, we have a road map — $600, down to $400, down to $300 and $200 a ton,” Wurzbacher said. “This is over the next five years. Down to $200 we know quite well what we’re doing.” And beyond $200, Wurzbacher suggested, things get murkier. To move below that price would depend on “new developments” in technology or manufacturing. Both founders told me they expect to reap enormous cost reductions from expanding production — activities that involve buying materials more cheaply in bulk and assembling units on automated factory lines instead of building them by hand, as is the case now. Design advances could wring out other costs. “Maintenance is very expensive,” Wurzbacher said. “Right now, if we exchange the filters in the collectors, we have to rent a crane, and that’s a lot of man-hours. In the next-generation units, we have improved that a lot, so relatively small design changes could cut the costs of maintenance by a factor of three.” Climeworks also intends to derive savings from improvements to crucial materials, like the sorbent that catches the CO₂. At the moment, the company’s technology requires that the temperature inside the units be raised periodically to about 100 degrees Celsius to release CO₂ from the sorbent so it can be drawn off and stored. If the process can be done at a lower temperature, the units will use less energy, and the life of the materials should be extended, further driving down costs. The company’s ambitions for mass production may still seem extreme. To actually capture 1 percent of the world’s carbon emissions by 2025 would, by Gebald’s calculations, require that Climeworks build 250,000 carbon-capture plants like the ones on the roof at Hinwil. That adds up to about 4.5 million carbon collectors. For a company that has only built 100 collectors (and has 14 small plants around Europe), it’s a staggering number. The Climeworks founders therefore try to think of their product as the automotive industry might — a piece of mass-produced technology and metal, not the carbon they hope to sequester. “What we’re doing is gas separation,” Wurzbacher said, “and that’s traditionally a process-industry business, like oil and gas. But we don’t really see ourselves there.” The founders note that Toyota makes more than 10 million cars annually. “Every CO₂ collector has about the same weight and dimensions of a car — roughly two tons, and roughly 2 meters by 2 meters by 2 meters,” Gebald said. “And all the methods used to produce the CO₂ collectors could be well automated. So we have the automotive industry as a model for how to produce things in large quantities for low cost.” The two men have already sought advice from Audi. They are also aware that the automotive industry perfected its methods over the course of 100 years. Climeworks, if it plans to have even a modest impact, doesn’t have nearly as much time. In 1954, the economist Paul Samuelson put forward a theory that made a distinction between “private-consumption goods” — bread, cars, houses and the like — and commodities that existed apart from the usual laws of supply and demand. Modern global markets are obviously quite successful at pricing private goods we need and want. But the other type of commodity Samuelson was describing is something now known as a “public good,” which benefits everyone but is not bought, sold or consumed the same way. Definitions of a public good can vary, but the oft-used examples are lighthouses, national defenses and clean air. Direct air capture can no doubt create private goods, like soft-drink carbonation or fuels. What makes its value so difficult to estimate is that in burying CO₂ for a better atmosphere — and, almost certainly, a better future — its purveyors would also create a public good. “The challenge with just collecting and burying CO₂ is that there isn’t a market yet,” Julio Friedmann, a former United States Energy Department official who now works at Columbia University, told me. “What it’s really about is offering an environmental service for a fee.” And what that means, in short, is that direct air capture’s success would be limited to the size of the market for private goods — soda fizz, greenhouse gas — unless governments decided to intervene and help fund the equivalent of several million (or more) lighthouses. An intervention could take a variety of forms. It could be large grants for research to find better sorbent materials, for instance, which would be similar to government investments that long ago helped nurture the solar- and wind-power industries. But help could also come by expanding regulations that already exist. A new and obscure United States tax provision, known as 45Q and signed last year by President Trump, offers a tax credit of up to $50 a ton for companies that bury CO₂ in geologic formations. The credit can benefit oil and gas firms that pump CO₂ underground during drilling work, as well as power plants that capture emissions directly from their smokestacks. Yet it could be used by Climeworks too, should it open plants in the United States — but only if it manages to remove and bury 100,000 tons of CO₂ per year. Governments can make carbon more expensive too. The Climeworks founders told me they don’t believe their company will succeed on what they call “climate impact” scales unless the world puts significant prices on emissions, in the form of a carbon tax or carbon fee. “Our goal is to make it possible to capture CO₂ from the air for below $100 per ton,” Wurzbacher says. “No one owns a crystal ball, but we think — and we’re quite confident — that by something like 2030 we’ll have a global average price on carbon in the range of $100 to $150 a ton.” There is optimism in this thinking, he admitted; at the moment, only a few European countries have made progress in assessing a high price on carbon, and in the United States, carbon taxes have been repudiated recently at the polls, most recently in Washington State. Still, if such prices became a reality, they could benefit the carbon extraction market in a variety of ways. A company that sells a product or uses a process that creates high emissions — an airline, for instance, or a steel maker — could be required to pay carbon-removal companies $100 per metric ton or more to offset their CO₂ output. Or a government might use carbon-tax proceeds to directly pay businesses to collect and bury CO₂. In the absence of any meaningful government action, perhaps a crusading billionaire could put all the money in his estate toward capturing CO₂ and stashing it in the earth. If carbon came to be properly priced, a global ledger would need to be kept by regulators so that air-capture machines could suck in and bury an amount equivalent to the CO₂ that emitters produce. Because CO₂ emissions mix quickly into the atmosphere, location would be mostly irrelevant, except for the need to situate plants near clean energy sources and suitable areas for sequestering the gas underground. A direct-air-capture plant in Iceland, in other words, could take in the same quantity of emissions produced by a Boeing 787 in Australia and thus negate its environmental impact. What’s more, there might not be limitations on the burial process. “It doesn’t cost too much to pump CO₂ underground,” Stanford’s Sally Benson says. Companies already sequester about 34 million metric tons of CO₂ in the ground every year, at a number of sites around the world, usually to enhance the oil-drilling process. “The costs range from $2 to $15 per ton. So the bigger cost in all of this is the cost of carbon capture.” Benson told me that various studies suggest that the earth’s capacity for CO₂ sequestration could be in the range of 25 trillion metric tons; burying, say, five billion metric tons of CO₂ a year is therefore within the realm of possibility. In an imaginary, zero-carbon future, the revenue prospects for air-capture companies would probably be enormous. “If we get to $100 to $150 a ton,” Wurzbacher told me, “then the market is almost infinite.” It would be so large, he said, that even if his company went through an exponential expansion, he doubted it could serve all the potential clients. At such low prices, companies could potentially fold carbon offsets into their pricing — or be compelled to do so — leading to an explosion in the market. “Christoph and me, we are always saying, we think that if this develops in a direction we think it does, we are not founding a company — we’re really founding a new industry,” Wurzbacher said. He points to the work in Iceland — a collaborative effort, funded partly by the European Union — as the first step toward that industry. At the moment, a single Climeworks collector on a Reykjavik geothermal field takes in air and collects CO₂; after the gas is flushed from the machine’s filter, it is mixed with water, essentially forming hot seltzer. Then the liquid is injected into a basalt rock formation deep underground. Over the course of about two years, the CO₂ mineralizes, locking away the gas forever. At Climeworks’s offices in Zurich, I asked Valentin Gutknecht, who was at the time the company’s business-development manager, if he could bury in Iceland my emissions from my plane flight from the United States to Zurich. He had a written agreement he could print out and give me, but it wouldn’t be cheap, he warned. The price was running about $600 a metric ton, meaning my flight would cost about an extra $700. But I was hardly the first person to ask him. The weekend before, Gutknecht told me, he received 900 unsolicited inquiries by email. Many were from potential customers who wanted to know how soon Climeworks could bury their CO₂ emissions, or how much a machine might cost them. I had the sense I was getting a glimpse of what’s to come: A community of people — not large enough to make a difference, but nonetheless motivated — seemed ready to pay a premium to reverse their CO₂ emissions. Later, Wurzbacher told me he wants to offer a “one click” consumer service, perhaps in a year or two, which would expand what they’re doing in Iceland to individual customers and businesses. A Climeworks app could be installed on my smartphone, he explained. It could then be activated by my handset’s location services. “You fly over here to Europe,” he explained, “and the app tells you that you have just burned 1.7 tons of CO₂. Do you want to remove that? Well, Climeworks can remove it for you. Click here. We’ll charge your credit card. And then you’ll get a stone made from CO₂ for every ton you sequester.” He sat back and sighed. “That would be my dream,” he said. Paradoxical though it may seem, it’s probable that synthetic fuels offer a more practical path to creating a viable business for direct air capture. The vast and constant market demand for fuel is why Carbon Engineering has staked its future on synthetics. The world currently burns about 100 million barrels of oil a day. David Keith told me he thinks that by 2050 the demand for transportation fuels will almost certainly be modified by the transition to electric vehicles. “So let’s say you’d have to supply something like 50 million barrels a day in 2050 of fuels,” he said. “That’s still a monster market.” Steve Oldham, Carbon Engineering’s chief executive, added that direct-air-capture synthetics have an advantage over traditional fossil fuels: They won’t have to spend a dime on exploration. “If you were a brand-new company looking to make fuel, the cost of finding and then extracting fossil fuel is going to be really substantial,” he says. “Whereas our plants, you can build it right in the middle of California, wherever you have air and water.” He told me that the company’s first large-scale facility should be up and running by 2022, and will turn out at least 500 barrels a day of fuel feedstock — the raw material sent to refineries. Climeworks perceives a large market for fuels, too. In a town near Zurich called Rapperswil-Jona, the firm has installed a collector in a small plant, run by the local technical university, to produce methane. In a room about the size of a shipping container, the Climeworks machine takes in CO₂ through an air duct and sends it through a maze of pipes to combine it with hydrogen, which is derived from water using solar power. When I visited, the plant was a few weeks away from being operational, but the methane coming out of the works could replace gasoline in the engine of just about any car, bus or truck outfitted to run on natural gas. At a larger plant in Italy, Climeworks recently joined a consortium of European countries to produce synthetic methane that will be used by a local trucking fleet. With different tweaks and refinements, the process could be adapted for diesel, gasoline, jet fuel — or it could be piped directly to local neighborhoods as fuel for home furnaces. From an economic standpoint, synthetic fuels could allow producers to plug into a huge existing infrastructure — refineries, gas stations, cars, planes, trucks, homes, ships — and replace a product already in demand with something arguably better. But the new fuels are not necessarily cheaper. Carbon Engineering aspires to deliver its product at an ultimate retail price of about $1 per liter, or $3.75 per gallon. What would make the product competitive are regulations in California that now require fuel sellers to produce fuels of lower “carbon intensity.” To date this has meant blending gas and diesel with biofuels like ethanol, but it could soon mean carbon-capture synthetics too. In an expanding market, synthetic fuels could have curious effects. Since they’re made from airborne CO₂ and hydrogen and could be manufactured just about anywhere, they could rearrange the geopolitical order — tempering the power of a handful of countries that now control natural-gas and oil markets. The methane project in Rapperswil-Jona is especially suited for that country’s needs, Markus Friedl, a thermodynamics professor overseeing the project, told me, because Switzerland imports almost all of its natural gas, and its ability to generate energy from renewable sources is limited during the colder months. Carbon-capture-derived fuels, if they become cheap enough, could be a form of energy storage — made in summer, with solar or wind power, and used in winter — that carries a lower cost (and longer life) than batteries. From an environmental standpoint, air-capture fuels are not a utopian solution. Such fuels are carbon neutral, not carbon negative. They can’t take CO₂ from our industrial past and put it back into the earth. If all the cars, trucks and planes of the year 2050 run on renewable fuels instead of fossil fuels, their CO₂ emissions would need to be removed from the air, recycled into the same product they originally burned through, and the cycle would need to repeat, ad infinitum, lest emissions increase. Even so, these fuels could present an enormous improvement. Transportation — currently the most significant source of emissions by sector in the United States — could cease to be a net emitter of CO₂. Just as crucial, the technology of direct air capture could scale up to become better and cheaper. A huge expansion would also involve huge complications. “You start to get into really big challenges when you get to these big, large scales,” Glen Peters, a research director at the Cicero Center for International Climate Research in Oslo, told me. “If you can do one carbon-capture facility, where Carbon Engineering or Climeworks can build a big plant, great. You need to do that 5,000 times. And to capture a million tons of CO₂ with direct air capture, you need a small power plant just to run that facility. So if you’re going to build one direct-air-capture facility every day for the next 30 years to get to some of these scenarios, then in addition, we have to build a new mini power plant every day as well.” It’s also the case that you have to address two extraordinary problems at the same time, Peters added. “To reach 1.5 degrees, we need to halve emissions every decade,” he said. That would mean persuading entire nations, like China and the United States, to switch from burning coal to using renewables at precisely the same time that we make immense investments in negative-emission technologies. And Peters pointed out that this would need to be done even as governments choose among competing priorities: health care, education and so on. “The idea of bringing direct air capture up to 10 billion tons by the middle or later part of the century is such a herculean task it would require an industrial scale-up the likes of which the world has never seen,” Princeton’s Stephen Pacala told me. And yet Pacala wasn’t pessimistic about making a start. He seemed to think it was necessary for the federal government to begin with significant research and investments in the technology — to see how far and fast it could move forward, so that it’s ready as soon as possible. At Climeworks, Gebald and Wurzbacher spoke in similar terms, asserting that the conversations around climate challenges are moving beyond the choice between clean energy or carbon removal. Both will be necessary. Gebald and Wurzbacher seem less assured about the future of global policy than on the mechanics of scaling up. Some of that, they made clear, was related to their outlook as engineers, to what they’ve gathered from observing companies like Audi and Apple. If the last century has proved anything, it’s that society is not always intent on acting quickly, at least in the political realm, to clean up our environment. But we’ve proved very good at building technology in mass quantities and making products and devices better and cheaper — especially when there’s money to be made. For now, Gebald and Wurzbacher seemed to regard the climate challenge in mathematical terms. How many gigatons needed to be removed? How much would it cost per ton? How many Climeworks machines were required? Even if the figures were enormous, even if they appeared impossible, to see the future their way was to redefine the problem, to move away from the narrative of loss, to forget the multiplying stories of dying reefs and threatened coastlines — and to begin to imagine other possibilities. An earlier version of this article misstated the abbreviation of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. It is E.T.H. Zurich not E.C.H. Jon Gertner writes frequently for the magazine about science and technology. He last wrote about Tesla’s effort to build self-driving cars.   ", "id": "5c62997e3a125f5075c09374", "date": "2019-02-12T10:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Japan’s Enchanting Ice Monsters, Claimed by Climate Change", "full_text": " Japan Dispatch ZAO ONSEN, Japan — Ashley Huang had seen the pictures on the internet, and they were mesmerizing: huge, Godzilla-like creatures, naturally formed by snow and ice, encasing conifer trees spread across a mountainous landscape in northern Japan. Last month, she and a friend, Yi-Hsien Lin, traveled from Taiwan to Zao Onsen, a village in Yamagata Prefecture, to view the snowy formations up close. I met them in line for the ropeway that would take us one mile up to the peak of Mount Zao, a skiing outpost that has increasingly drawn tourists from around Asia to see the “juhyo,” known in English as ice or snow monsters. Trouble was, when we arrived at the top after a 30-minute ride on two separate cable cars, the cold was biting, but the view disappointing. Russia Japan Sea of Japan Pacific Ocean Yamagata Zao Onsen Tokyo 100 miles Many of the icy figures seemed to be diminished versions of the photographs online. Instead of majestic beasts, there were spindly trees draped in clumps of snow. “I was expecting to see more,” Ms. Huang said, after retreating to a cafe inside the ropeway station. “I think it just looks like ice on a tree. I don’t know why they call them ice monsters.” In the immediate term, rains and an unseasonable warm spell a few days earlier were responsible for the droopy snow creatures. But in the longer term, scientists say climate change is coming for the juhyo. Researchers have tracked a steady deterioration of the snow monsters — both in the acreage they cover and the length of the season in which they can be seen — because of warming temperatures that melt the snow earlier and at higher elevations. The trees are also being ravaged by moths that gobble up their needles and a species of bark beetles that have been killing otherwise healthy trees in the last five years. Typically, the juhyo materialize under precise conditions. Cold, dry westerly winds blow down from Siberia, across the Sea of Japan, and form banks of clouds that drop supercooled water that ices over the conifers found in the northeast of Japan. When snow falls and thickens over that icy mixture, the trees are transformed into an army of abominable snowmen. Dating back to the early 20th century, scientists identified juhyo stretching from as far north as Hokkaido, Japan’s northernmost island, to as far south as Nagano, which was host to the 1998 Winter Olympics and is about 150 miles northwest of Tokyo. Today, Yamagata Prefecture, about 230 miles north of Tokyo, is the farthest south the juhyo can be found. Fumitaka Yanagisawa, a professor of geochemistry who studies the juhyo at Yamagata University, said average temperatures in Yamagata between December and March have risen by about 2 degrees Celsius — or 3.6 Fahrenheit — since 1910. “I am very worried about greenhouse effects,” Dr. Yanagisawa said. “By the end of the century, the juhyo will disappear from earth.” In an effort to replenish the trees that have died, the local forestry service has tried planting seeds close to the top of the mountain for the last three years. Until last spring, when officials covered the seeds with wire mesh, rodents got to them before they were able to sprout. Akiyoshi Nishikawa, the director of the Yamagata District Forest Office, said the service would also try transplanting young saplings from lower elevations to the mountain peak. The village hosts a smattering of lodges, hotels and hot spring bathhouses for visitors from Taiwan, Thailand, the Philippines and Singapore who started flocking here about five years ago to see the snow monsters, made famous by photo sharing on social media sites like Instagram. But increasingly, local tourism officials are worried that tourists will leave disappointed. “In the past it was mostly skiers, but recently there are a lot of people who have come just to see the juhyo,” said Hideo Shimanuki, the director of the Zao Ropeway. “If the juhyo disappear, it will be a big minus for our business.” About 77,000 visitors took the ropeway last winter season, up from 47,000 three years earlier. “I came to ski and see the ice monsters,” said Darius Tan, 39, an academic tutor from Singapore who was resting in the ropeway cafe. “They were on my bucket list.” The sparsely covered trees, he said, were “not really what I was looking for.” On good days, the snow-covered trees still look gorgeous, but at the Zao Onsen Tourism Association, where posters adorn the walls showing juhyo in their wide-girthed glory, Hachiemon Ito, a local hotel owner and chairman of the association, acknowledged that what we had seen on the mountain were scraggly editions. “What you see today, we would not describe as juhyo in the past,” Mr. Ito said. “In the past they used to be so much more beautiful.” He said the town hoped to survive on tourists attracted to the hot spring baths, known as onsen, and local cuisine, as well as visitors from countries that do not get much snow. In a sign of some climate change consciousness, the hotel where we stayed had turned on just one space heater in each room, leaving a sign on the other noting that because of global warming, the owners were trying to conserve energy. We got a glimpse of the magic of the juhyo when we took a nighttime trip up the ropeway. As the cable car silently ascended over perfectly snow-dappled trees, it felt at first as if we were taking a Disney ride through a landscape of computer-generated images. But as we rode higher, I could see some lumpy creatures looming up on the side of the mountain, lit by the headlamps of a large bulldozer escorting tourists on a close-up excursion. Despite our disappointment earlier in the day, here were the juhyo we had come to see: a zaftig queen in a long white gown with a crown of tree-branch antlers, and another in the shape of a Tyrannosaurus rex. Earlier in the day, we had met a retired couple from Saitama, a Tokyo suburb, who had come for a two-day trip to see the juhyo. Keiko Kawanishi, 71, wanted her husband, Kazuhiro, 74, to see what she remembered from a trip to Zao Onsen 60 years ago. “I skied from the summit to the bottom of the mountain,” she recalled. “And all the way down, the juhyo were so thick.” I could only imagine it. Follow Motoko Rich on Twitter: @motokorich  Makiko Inoue contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c8a187549f0eacbf105cfb2", "date": "2019-03-14T09:00:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A ‘Green New Deal’ Is Far From Reality, but Climate Action Is Picking Up in the States", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — Even though talk of a “Green New Deal” is getting louder in Congress, the odds of major federal climate legislation passing in the next two years remain extremely low. It’s a different story at the state level, however: The midterm elections in the fall brought in a new wave of governors who are now setting climate goals for their states and laying out more ambitious plans to cut emissions and expand low-carbon energy. In the past month, newly elected Democratic governors in Michigan, Illinois and New Mexico have joined the United States Climate Alliance, a group of 19 states and Puerto Rico that has vowed to uphold the Paris climate agreement despite President Trump’s disavowal of the accord. With the new additions, the alliance now covers one-third of America’s greenhouse gas emissions and nearly half its population.  “It essentially says to the world that Michigan is going to live up to the promise that we, as a country, made at one point” to address climate change, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan said when she announced that her state would join the alliance and establish a new office of climate and energy. States can only do so much to tackle global warming by themselves. But they can serve as laboratories of sorts, testing which climate policies work well and which ones are ineffective or too costly. And, by advancing technologies like wind, solar or electric vehicles, they could pave the way for more ambitious federal action — should that moment ever arrive. Here are some of the biggest steps states have taken recently on climate policy. For years, the go-to climate move for states has been to require utilities to use more renewable electricity, a task made easier by the rapid decline in costs for wind and solar power. Governors are now poised to accelerate those policies. In Maine, the new governor, Janet Mills, a Democrat, has vowed to restore incentives for rooftop solar and to boost wind power locally — moves that had been stymied by her Republican predecessor. In New Mexico, another Democrat, Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, is backing a bill requiring electric utilities to get 50 percent of their power from renewable sources by 2030, keeping pace with neighbors like Colorado and Nevada. (Nevada voters in November approved their own requirement for 50 percent renewables by 2030.) There’s been a major shift in how America makes electricity over the past two decades. Each state has its own story. The most striking development, though, has been the array of governors who are now floating plans for their states to get 100 percent of their electricity from zero-carbon sources. Legislators in California and Hawaii have already set deadlines for utilities to meet this target by 2045. In recent months, the governors of Colorado, Illinois, New Jersey and New York have pledged to pursue similar goals. These states are all venturing into uncharted territory, and there’s no guarantee they will succeed. As states rely on ever-larger amounts of wind and solar power, it becomes more challenging to juggle these intermittent sources. Getting all the way to 100 percent zero-carbon electricity, experts say, could require extensive new nationwide transmission lines, novel energy storage techniques or help from untested technologies like advanced nuclear power. For now, states are experimenting with varied approaches. Hawaii, for example, wants to meet its goal entirely through renewable energy. In New Jersey, by contrast, Gov. Philip D. Murphy signed legislation to keep his state’s nuclear plants open as part of a broader low-carbon portfolio. And New York is soliciting bids for large new offshore wind farms. Electricity is responsible for about one-third of America’s carbon dioxide emissions. To go further, states will also have to clean up the cars and trucks on their roads, which account for another third. In December, nine Eastern states and the District of Columbia announced they would work together to put a price on emissions from transportation fuels and invest the revenue in lower-carbon solutions, potentially including mass transit, electric buses or new charging stations to make it easier for people to own plug-in vehicles. Some of the states involved, like Pennsylvania and Maryland, are in danger of missing their self-imposed climate goals unless they can halt the stubborn rise in driving emissions. While the finer details of the policy will be hashed out this year, the states are modeling their efforts after the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a cap-and-trade system in the Northeast that auctions a steadily dwindling supply of carbon pollution permits to power plants and uses the revenue to invest in efficiency and clean energy programs. “Transportation is going to be even more complex than electricity — there are so many moving parts,” said Vicki Arroyo, the executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center, which has been working closely with the states on the initiative. But, she said, referring to Maryland, Massachusetts and Vermont, “It’s notable that we have three Republican governors here who are committed to stepping up on this.” In November, voters in Washington State rejected a ballot initiative to impose a statewide tax on carbon emissions — a sign that putting a price on carbon, a favorite solution of many economists, remains a tough sell politically. But the idea is far from dead: In neighboring Oregon, the Legislature is now considering a statewide cap-and-trade system that would put a price on emissions from a wide range of polluters, including manufacturers, paper mills, refineries and utilities. (Oregon already gets the vast majority of its electricity from hydropower dams, so it has less room to expand renewable power than other states.) The bill faces a tough battle, but if it were to pass, Oregon could link up with California and Quebec to create a carbon trading system. Elsewhere, New Jersey and Virginia are planning to join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. Although Virginia’s governor, Ralph Northam, a Democrat, has faced intense pressure to resign over a racist yearbook photo, state regulators are still laying the groundwork to participate in the cap-and-trade program. In September, a report by America’s Pledge, a coalition of states, cities and businesses that have promised to stick with the Paris Agreement, found that current state and city climate policies would, if followed through, get the United States about two-thirds of the way toward its commitment under the accord. Nathan Hultman, an author of that report and director of the Center for Global Sustainability at the University of Maryland, said the flurry of new state policies could help push the United States closer to its Paris goal, a reduction of emissions at least 26 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, though it would take time to gauge their full impact. “It’s still the case that federal leadership is going to be absolutely essential, and right now that’s absent,” he said. “But we also knew that federal action alone wasn’t going to be enough, because so many important decisions have to be made at the state and city level. And one thing we’ve seen in the past two years is that states are starting to think seriously about what more they can actually do to deliver real and meaningful emissions reductions.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Brad Plumer is a reporter covering climate change, energy policy and other environmental issues for The Times's climate team.  @bradplumer ", "id": "5c5d53883a125f5075c08ae8", "date": "2019-02-08T10:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change, U.S. Shutdown, Michael Cohen: Your Friday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  The oceans are warming up faster than thought, the U.S. shutdown remained a logjam, and Norway disclosed the kidnapping of a tycoon’s wife. Here’s the latest:  A new analysis reports that ocean temperatures are rising 40 percent faster on average than previously thought. The finding has dire implications. The oceans have been absorbing most of the heat trapped by greenhouse gas emissions, offering a buffer against climate change. Their escalating temperatures are already killing off marine ecosystems, raising sea levels and making hurricanes more destructive. Continued heating will only make those effects more catastrophic, scientists say. “2018 is going to be the warmest year on record for the Earth’s oceans,” said Zeke Hausfather, an author of the study. “As 2017 was the warmest year, and 2016 was the warmest year.” The partial government shutdown entered its 21st day, tying it for the longest such one in American history.  Developments: Senate Republicans tried to broker a compromise on Thursday, and their efforts swiftly disintegrated. Vice President Mike Pence insisted that the White House would settle for nothing less than a border wall, and Democrats, as ever, rejected one. The White House was considering diverting relief money from storm- and fire-ravaged Puerto Rico, Florida, Texas and California to pay for a wall. Impact: Many farmers are near or at a financial breaking point. “I may lose the farm, but I strongly feel we need some border security,” one farmer in Mississippi said. More: President Trump canceled a trip to the Davos economic conference in Switzerland later this month and visited the U.S. southern border near McAllen, Tex., where crime is near a 30-year low despite his portrayal of a border “crisis.” Two of our reporters are traveling the border’s length. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in a speech in Cairo, declared that the U.S. would take a more activist role in the region. He also rejected much of President Barack Obama’s human-rights-based approach there, outlining an approach that is based on a close alliance with authoritarian rulers. Mr. Pompeo — whose remarks came almost exactly a decade after Mr. Obama delivered a landmark speech in the same city — denounced the former president for, he said, underestimating “the tenacity and viciousness of radical Islam” and for his policies on Iran. Here are the many ways Mr. Pompeo departed from Mr. Obama. We also fact-checked the speech.  Confusion: Mr. Pompeo apparently sought to reassure jittery nations with his declaration that “when America retreats, chaos follows” and that the U.S. would “expel every last Iranian boot from Syria,” but the effect was confounding to many, coming weeks after President Trump’s impulsive announcement that U.S. forces would leave Syria. Go deeper: The U.S. has spent $8 billion to build a strong Afghan air force but it is still struggling, which could complicate Mr. Trump’s efforts to pull out of the country. The wife of a wealthy Norwegian businessman has been kidnapped, and demands have been made for a large ransom paid in cryptocurrency, the police revealed this week.  Details: Anne-Elisabeth Falkevik Hagen went missing from the couple’s home on Oct. 31, but the drama had played out in secret until the police made it public. They said that they have a line of communication with people claiming to be her captors who are demanding a ransom — said to be as high as 9 million euros — in a cryptocurrency called Monero. Whether she is still alive is unclear, and three men are being sought for questioning. Effects: The case is dominating headlines in Norway. It has highlighted worries that the egalitarian-minded country’s practice of publishing people’s tax returns could be handy to kidnappers. And it has led to calls for cryptocurrencies, which are favored in criminal activities, to be banned or regulated.  Michael Cohen: President Trump’s former personal lawyer, who implicated the president in a scheme to pay hush money to two women who say they had affairs with Mr. Trump, has agreed to testify publicly before Congress on Feb. 7, setting up a blockbuster airing of scandal. Russia investigation: The presence of a dozen Ukrainian political and business figures in Washington for the celebrations surrounding President Trump’s inauguration has been under investigation by federal prosecutors interested in potential influence-peddling.  Snow: Once-in-a-generation heavy snowfall has left at least six people dead and brought travel and tourism to a halt in parts of the Alps.  Cristiano Ronaldo: Law enforcement officials in Nevada investigating a sexual-assault accusation against the soccer star have obtained a warrant for a sample of his DNA.   Brexit: Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have a Plan B if lawmakers in Parliament vote against her unloved plan for withdrawal, as seems likely. Underlining the country’s tensions, a TV movie about the Brexit campaign starring Benedict Cumberbatch has set off anger and angst.  Democratic Republic of Congo: The U.N. Security Council is set to meet to discuss the disputed outcome of the country’s presidential election. The victory of the president-elect, Felix Tshisekedi, been called into question by, among others, Belgium and France.  Ford: The automaker said it would lay off “thousands” of the 68,000 workers it employs in Europe and close a factory in France. Tougher emissions rules and declining demand have been hurting profits. Forced marriages: After public outrage, the British government announced that it will no longer require British women forced into marriages abroad to pay the government for the cost of helping them escape, acknowledging that they “may have endured particular suffering.” Venezuela: President Nicolás Maduro was inaugurated for a second term after an election last year that was widely considered illegitimate — and despite a plummeting economy and skyrocketing violence, hunger and migration. Our team explains how he has clung to power. Vintage tanks: As President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia promotes the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany as a cornerstone of nationalist fervor, he has a pressing need for T-34 tanks for military parades, museum shows and film shoots. So it was with great fanfare that Russia took in a consignment of old tanks from the Lao People’s Army.  Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: End the week with a comforting and rich three-cheese cauliflower casserole. One thing you can do to help the environment? Use revolving doors when you have the chance. Clay-based creams and masks can sometimes irritate the skin, but here are a few innovative new formats to clear your pores. The game is afoot this weekend for the Baker Street Irregulars, a literary society devoted to Sherlock Holmes that is holding its annual dinner in New York City. Founded in 1934, the Irregulars are named for a group of street urchins who assisted Holmes in some of Arthur Conan Doyle’s 60 stories about the fictional detective. The group, which is invitation only, has about 300 members around the world and publishes a quarterly journal of Sherlockian scholarship. The Irregulars’ dinner tonight is part of a five-day celebration in Manhattan featuring a lecture, a memorabilia sale and parties with other groups of Sherlock Holmes fans, including the Baker Street Babes. (The first female members of the Irregulars weren’t admitted until the early 1990s.) The event is timed to coincide with Holmes’s birthday, which enthusiasts have generally agreed is Jan. 6 — although the reasoning is far from elementary. Chris Stanford, on the Briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story.  Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this briefing misidentified the home state of a farmer who supports President Trump. The farmer is from Mississippi, not Missouri.", "id": "5c38158c3a125f5075c03d8a", "date": "2019-01-11T04:02:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Climate Change, Furlough, ‘Sopranos’: Your Thursday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. The government shutdown will reach its 21st day tomorrow, and, if it lasts to Saturday, become the longest in 43 years. But first: 1. Scientists say the world’s oceans are heating up far, far more rapidly — 40 percent faster on average — than previously thought. The finding, in a newly published analysis, has dire implications. The oceans have been absorbing most of the heat trapped by greenhouse gas emissions, offering a buffer against climate change. Their escalating temperatures are already killing off marine ecosystems, raising sea levels and making hurricanes more destructive. Above, Hurricane Florence pummeling Atlantic Beach, N.C., this fall. Continued heating will only make those effects more catastrophic, the scientists say. _____ 2. “No wall, no deal.” Vice President Mike Pence flatly declared there could be no agreement to reopen the government without funding for a border wall — terms that Democrats have already rejected. And a bipartisan plan developed in the Senate that would trade wall funding for legal status for undocumented immigrants facing deportation also seemed to be dead on arrival. The partial shutdown, now in its 20th day, will almost certainly become the longest in American history, surpassing a 21-day lapse that began in December 1995. That leaves 800,000 federal employees still furloughed or working without pay. One example of the impact: 600 pollution inspectors and other workers at the Environmental Protection Agency responsible for detecting violations that endanger human health are off the job. Here’s a state-by-state look at the shutdown’s impact. And here are stories from federal employees, describing their sacrifices and preparations. _____ 3. Along the border in Texas, on a trip that he did not want to take, to discuss a crisis that Democrats say does not exist, President Trump repeated his demand for a wall. He reiterated an untrue claim that Mexico would indirectly pay for the wall through a revamped trade agreement, and heard from people who had loved ones killed by immigrants. Above, Mr. Trump in McAllen, Tex. “If we had a barrier of any kind, whether it’s steel or concrete,” Mr. Trump said of tragic stories involving violence and human trafficking, “they wouldn’t even bother trying. We could stop that cold.” The president continued to float the idea of declaring a state of national emergency that could allow him to bypass Congress to fund the wall. Separately, our journalists are driving the length of the approximately 1,900-mile U.S.-Mexico border. They just sent in their first dispatch. _____ 4. Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, said he would give a congressional panel “a full and credible account” of his work for Mr. Trump in public testimony on Feb. 7. Mr. Cohen has implicated the president in a scheme to pay hush money to two women claiming to have had affairs with him, for which he was sentenced to three years in prison in December, above. And as a consigliere to Mr. Trump, he was privy to workings of his inner circle under scrutiny by the special counsel Robert Mueller and federal prosecutors. He could soon share the details on national television under oath. _____ 5. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared, in a speech in Cairo, that the United States would take a more activist role in the Middle East. Mr. Pompeo, above, apparently sought to reassure jittery nations with his declaration that the United States would “expel every last Iranian boot from Syria,” but the effect was confounding to many, coming weeks after President Trump’s impulsive announcement that American forces would leave Syria. He also rejected the Obama administration’s Middle East policy — referring to it as “the age of self-inflicted shame” — and outlined an approach based on alliances with authoritarian rulers. Mr. Pompeo denounced the former president for underestimating “the tenacity and viciousness of radical Islam” and for his policies on Iran. Here are the many ways Mr. Pompeo departed from Mr. Obama. _____ 6. Tensions are high in Congo.  Election officials awarded the presidency to a candidate who was not seen as the top vote-getter. That dashed hopes of an undisputed transfer of power as the longtime leader of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Joseph Kabila, steps down. Still, the pick — Felix Tshisekedi, pictured above in December — wasn’t Mr. Kabila’s first choice. That means Mr. Kabila’s candidate lost so badly that his government could not simply hand him the presidency without risking widespread violence and international condemnation. But it was unclear how the decision to pass over the leading opposition figure, Martin Fayulu, would sit with the population. _____ 7. Female economists say sexual harassment, discrimination and bullying have pushed them to the sidelines — or out of the field entirely. “I spent all my time hoping that no one would remember I was female,” Susan Athey, an economist at Stanford, above, said of her first economics department job. The issues took center stage at the American Economic Association’s annual meeting last weekend, following substantiated allegations of harassment against one of the most prominent young economists in the country. The association faces a push for more aggressive action on codes of professional conduct. “There’s just a ton of anger and resentment around how the profession has been,” another economist said at the meeting. Separately, Lady Gaga became the latest musician to apologize for collaborating with R. Kelly, who is accused of sexual misconduct and preying on teenagers, after the broadcast of an explosive investigative documentary detailing the allegations against him. _____ 8. The extravagant splendor of the animal kingdom can’t be explained by natural selection alone — so how did it come to be? A new generation of biologists is reviving a theory originally proposed by Charles Darwin 150 years ago. Beauty, they say, does not have to be a proxy for health or advantageous genes. Above, a male Indian peafowl. Sometimes, they argue, beauty is the glorious but meaningless flowering of arbitrary preference. Animals simply find certain features — a blush of red, a feathered flourish — to be appealing. And that innate sense of beauty itself can become an engine of evolution. The scientists’ thinking isn’t just rewriting the standard explanation for how beauty evolves — it’s changing the way we think about evolution itself. _____ 9. Twenty years ago today, a mobster walked into a psychiatrist’s office and changed the course of television. “‘The Sopranos was as clear a marker of the beginning of an era as anything in TV,” our chief television critics writes. We also named the 20 best drama series since, including “The West Wing,” “The Wire,” “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Transparent.” (Remember, we said 20 — check out the full list before you email to tell us we missed your favorite.) A “Sopranos” rewatch may be in order: Here’s a complete guide to heading back to Jersey. _____ 10. We close out the day with a nod to fitness trends past. In the 1960s, Face-o-Metrics, above, were all the rage. In 1971, The Times reviewed Hot Pants, an inflatable “reducing” garment (with a bit more flavor of the Michelin Man than you might expect). In the 1980s, kitchen calisthenics had participants shaking salad dressing and whirling furiously to “Flight of the Bumblebee.” Our writer took a look at how The Times has recorded fitness fads. Have a jazzy night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c37d0103a125f5075c03d0c", "date": "2019-01-10T23:06:47+0000"}]