[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Blames ‘Treasonous’ Critics for Russia Inquiry", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump went on the offensive on Monday a day after the special counsel investigation reported no conspiracy with Russia, suggesting that critics who pursued such suspicions were “treasonous,” guilty of “evil things” and should be investigated themselves. Grim faced and simmering with anger, Mr. Trump repeated his assertion that a collection of partisan foes had effectively conspired to try to disrupt or even end his presidency with false allegations about his campaign’s ties with Moscow in 2016. “There are a lot of people out there that have done some very, very evil things, some bad things, I would say some treasonous things against our country,” he told reporters during an Oval Office meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. “And hopefully people that have done such harm to our country — we’ve gone through a period of really bad things happening — those people will certainly be looked at. “I’ve been looking at them for a long time,” he added, “and I’m saying why haven’t they been looked at? They lied to Congress, many of them, you know who they are. They’ve done so many evil things.” The president’s comments expanded on the theme he expressed on Sunday after the Justice Department reported that the special counsel investigation by Robert S. Mueller III had wrapped up without finding a criminal scheme to influence the presidential election in tandem with Russia’s government. With the Mueller inquiry behind him, Mr. Trump seems intent on turning the tables on his foes. Mr. Trump took a softer line toward Mr. Mueller himself. Asked at an earlier appearance with Mr. Netanyahu on Monday whether Mr. Mueller had acted honorably, Mr. Trump said, “Yes, he did. Yes, he did.” Mr. Trump indicated that he would support releasing the full report by Mr. Mueller, as demanded by congressional Democrats. “Up to the attorney general,” he said. “Wouldn’t bother me at all.” But he brushed off a question about whether he was considering pardons of any of the associates who were convicted or pleaded guilty during Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. “Haven’t thought about it,” he said. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   ", "id": "5c99104849f0eacbf105eee3", "date": "2019-03-25T17:29:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Justice Dept. Watchdog’s Review of Russia Inquiry Is Nearly Done, Barr Says", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Justice Department’s internal watchdog intends to complete by May or June his investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry, including whether law enforcement officials abused their powers in surveilling a former Trump campaign aide, Attorney General William P. Barr told lawmakers on Tuesday. The department’s inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has been examining how law enforcement officials obtained a warrant in October 2016 to wiretap Carter Page, a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign with links to Russia. Mr. Horowitz’s investigators have also asked witnesses about informants that the F.B.I. turned to in the early stages of the investigation, according to people familiar with his inquiry. “The office of the inspector general has a pending investigation of the FISA process in the Russia investigation,” Mr. Barr said in testimony before a House appropriations subcommittee, using shorthand for the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “I expect that will be complete in probably May or June, I am told. So hopefully we’ll have some answers from Inspector General Horowitz on the issue of the FISA warrants.” A spokesman for Mr. Horowitz declined to comment on the timing of the expected report. But the inspector general has previously confirmed that he was looking into the early stages of the Russia inquiry, including wiretap applications, informants and whether any political bias against Mr. Trump influenced investigative decisions. Mr. Horowitz’s findings could once again upend the Justice Department and F.B.I., which have been at the center of a political firestorm since the 2016 presidential election over their handling of separate investigations into both Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server and ties between Russia and the Trump campaign. The highly anticipated results of the Russia inquiry are due to be made public “within a week,” Mr. Barr said on Tuesday. In the Russia investigation, Republicans have accused law enforcement officials of improperly obtaining the Page warrant because the application relied in part on Democratic-funded opposition research compiled into a dossier by Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who was also an F.B.I. informant. At issue is whether the F.B.I. and Justice Department made any misrepresentations to the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court when seeking the warrant, or if they should have flagged any concerns about the credibility of the information in the application during renewals. If the inspector general finds fault with the F.B.I., it could help validate Republican accusations that the Russia investigation was politically motivated. Mr. Trump’s allies have sought to reduce the inquiry to the problematic Steele dossier and to portray the Page wiretap application as its central feature. However, the bureau opened the counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election meddling — including scrutinizing links to the Trump campaign — based on other information, and without the dossier. And the Page wiretap was only a small part of the broader Trump-Russia investigation: The inquiry involved more than 2,800 subpoenas, nearly 500 search warrants and about 500 witness interviews, Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to Congress describing the conclusions of the coming report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel who took over the investigation in May 2017. Law enforcement officials were also granted three renewals of the wiretap from the surveillance court; Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general and a Trump administration appointee, signed the last renewal application, which was granted in June 2017. As part of his investigation, Mr. Horowitz is scrutinizing the F.B.I.’s relationship with Mr. Steele, who provided the politically charged information to the agents trying to determine whether any of Mr. Trump’s associates were secretly working with the Russian government’s campaign to meddle in the 2016 election. Top F.B.I. officials received the Steele information in September 2016 as they were debating whether to obtain the secret warrant to surveil Mr. Page. Among claims that Mr. Steele compiled from sources was that Mr. Page secretly met a Russian official promising compromising information about Hillary Clinton during a visit to Moscow in July 2016 — an accusation Mr. Page has denied. Critics have argued that the court should have been explicitly told that the research was funded by the Democratic National Committee and the Hillary Clinton campaign, arguing that the court did not know that the information had potentially biased origins. Justice Department practice in filling out applications for secret wiretaps is to avoid naming Americans or American organizations, and the application contained a lengthy footnote alerting the court that an unnamed person who commissioned Mr. Steele’s research was “likely looking for information to discredit” Mr. Trump’s campaign. The footnote went on to explain to the court that Mr. Steele had “provided reliable information to the F.B.I.” in earlier investigations and that based on that history, the bureau believed his latest information was “credible.” The inspector general has also been examining Mr. Steele’s contributions to previous F.B.I.’s investigations, according to the people familiar with the inquiry. Investigators for Mr. Horowitz have asked about his role in helping the bureau investigate corruption at FIFA, the governing body of world soccer, suggesting that one focus of his is whether the bureau exaggerated Mr. Steele’s previous history with the bureau in its application to wiretap Mr. Page. One of the debates surrounding the F.B.I.’s use of information from the Steele dossier in the application is whether it was all crucial to meeting the standard for eavesdropping on Mr. Page’s phone calls and emails. Asked whether he would have signed off on submitting the application if it did not contain that allegation, James A. Baker, who was the general counsel of the F.B.I. when it first sought permission to wiretap Mr. Page, called the allegation about Mr. Page’s visit to Moscow in 2016 “an important” part of the factual case for surveillance. “I am not going to sit here and say that there wouldn’t have been probable cause or that there would have been probable cause without the dossier,” Mr. Baker told lawmakers in the fall who were scrutinizing law enforcement officials’ actions during the 2016 election, according to a  transcript of his testimony released on Tuesday. But, he also said, “there were other things in that application that to me were alarming, as well.” Another F.B.I. lawyer involved in obtaining the warrant, Sally Moyer, told the same committees in October that it was “a close call” but “I think we would have gotten there on probable cause even without the Steele reporting,” a transcript of her testimony showed. In publicly released documents, the F.B.I. said it had decided to end its relationship with Mr. Steele in November 2016 after he spoke to the news media about his work for the F.B.I. after bureau officials had asked him not to do so. The inspector general is also scrutinizing another early source of information for the Russia investigation, the people said: Mr. Horowitz’s investigators have been asking questions about the role of Stefan A. Halper, another F.B.I. informant, and his prior work for the bureau. Agents involved in the Russia investigation asked Mr. Halper, an American academic who teaches in Britain, to gather information on Mr. Page and George Papadopoulos, another former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. However, Mr. Halper also had additional contacts with other Trump officials that have raised concerns about his activities. In one instance, Mr. Halper reached out to Sam Clovis, a Trump campaign aide; it was not clear whether Mr. Halper had the F.B.I.’s blessing to contact Mr. Clovis. Mr. Halper’s contacts have prompted Republicans and the president to incorrectly accuse the F.B.I. of spying on the campaign. Mr. Page has also said he met with Mr. Halper in mid-July 2016, about two weeks before the Russia investigation was opened. In addition, the inspector general is examining Mr. Steele’s contacts with Bruce Ohr, a Justice Department official, according to the people familiar with the inquiry. Mr. Ohr, an expert on Russian organized crime and himself a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s ire, spoke with Mr. Steele several times after the F.B.I. terminated its relationship with the former British spy, and relayed information from those conversations to the bureau. Mr. Barr, who was sworn in two months ago, also said that as he was awaiting the outcome of that inquiry, he was studying the F.B.I.’s decision in 2016 to begin investigating ties between Russia and Mr. Trump’s campaign, “trying to get my arms around all the aspects of the counterintelligence investigation that was conducted during the summer of 2016,” he said. Follow Adam Goldman and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @adamgoldmanNYT and @charlie_savage   ", "id": "5cad051849f0eacbf1f8214f", "date": "2019-04-09T20:46:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Matthew Whitaker Hearing Updates: He Declines to Defend the Russia Inquiry", "full_text": " The acting attorney general appeared before the House Judiciary Committee. Democrats asked about the Russia investigation and his oversight of it. Matthew G. Whitaker declined to defend the special counsel’s investigation, as his predecessor and likely successor at the Justice Department have done But Mr. Whitaker declared that he had “not interfered in any way” in the special counsel investigation and that he had provided no information about it to President Trump or White House officials. Mr. Whitaker said multiple times that he did not discuss the Mueller investigation with anyone at the White House, even though in July 2017 he interviewed to become a White House lawyer who would manage and respond to that inquiry. Mr. Whitaker’s predecessor overseeing the special counsel investigation, Rod J. Rosenstein, and his likely successor, William P. Barr, have both defended Mr. Mueller from the president’s accusation that the inquiry is a “witch hunt.” Mr. Whitaker was asked to do the same, and had a different answer. “Would you say the special counsel’s investigation is a witch hunt?” Representative Steve Cohen, Democrat of Tennessee, asked. “Are you overseeing a witch hunt?” “Congressman, it would be inappropriate for me to talk about an ongoing investigation,” Mr. Whitaker said, but he added that he had not denied it any funds or interfered with Mr. Mueller’s work. He provided a similar answer to another Democrat. The hearing quickly turned contentious as the committee chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, pressed Mr. Whitaker for details about when he had been briefed about the special counsel investigation and the acting attorney general refused to answer.  But under pressure from the chairman, Mr. Whitaker made news: He testified that he had not talked to Mr. Trump or senior White House officials about information: “I do not believe that I have briefed third-party individuals outside of the Department of Justice. I’ve received the briefings myself, and I’m usually the endpoint at that information.” Mr. Whitaker ultimately declared that though he had been briefed, he had followed “the special counsel’s regulations to a T.” “There’s been no event, no decision that has required me to take any action, and I’ve not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation,” he said. One moment in Mr. Whitaker’s testimony raised a potential conflict with news reports about events that led up to the Trump administration’s hiring of him. Pressed by Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, to say whether he had spoken to Mr. Trump, his family, White House officials, or outside surrogates like Rudy Giuliani about his views of the Mueller investigation before he joined the Justice Department in the fall of 2017, Mr. Whitaker said definitively that he had not. But, as The New York Times has reported, in July 2017 Mr. Whitaker interviewed with Donald F. McGahn II, then serving as Mr. Trump’s White House counsel, about the possibility of becoming the administration’s in-house lawyer who would manage and respond to the Mueller investigation. The White House instead ended up giving that job to Ty Cobb, and Mr. Whitaker continued to make public comments that were skeptical of the Russia investigation before the administration made him chief of staff to Mr. Sessions. Later, under questioning by Representative Eric Swalwell, Democrat of California, Mr. Whitaker acknowledged applying for that job but said he had spoken with Mr. McGahn’s chief of staff, Annie Donaldson, and insisted that his views of the Mueller investigation were not part of the interview. “They did not want to talk about the investigation because the folks were dealing with that investigation and that’s why they wanted to bring in someone that had been unrelated to the investigation and the campaign,” Mr. Whitaker said, adding: “We did not discuss it. We discussed about my background as a U.S. attorney and my legal practice.” CNN last month reported that Mr. Trump yelled at Mr. Whitaker after two developments in the Cohen case rattled the White House: Mr. Cohen’s decision to plead guilty to lying about the Trump organization’s work on a tower project in Moscow and the fact that the president was identified as Individual-1 in the Cohen plea papers. Mr. Whitaker first demurred when asked about the incidents. But when Rhode Island Democrat David Cicilline said, “I’m asking you under oath,” Mr. Whitaker flatly denied them. “No, congressman.” Despite reports that Mr. Trump admonished Mr. Whitaker after those developments, the acting attorney general also said, “I did not talk to the president about the Mueller investigation.” Mr. Whitaker said that he was not involved in the Justice Department’s controversial decision to reimpose restrictions on online gambling. That decision reversed a 2011 opinion allowing several types of gambling online.  Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland, noted that the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, one of the Republican party’s largest donors, spent more than a million dollars unsuccessfully lobbying Congress to override the original Justice Department opinion. When the Justice Department changed that opinion to further restrict online gambling, it greatly benefited Mr. Adelson’s businesses. Congress passed a partial overhaul of federal prison and sentencing laws last year in an effort to begin unwinding many of the tough-on-crime policies of the 1980s and 1990s. Mr. Whitaker put distance between his own views and those of his former boss, Jeff Sessions, who fought against the changes in the bill, the First Step Act. Mr. Whitaker said he had begun implementing them at the Justice Department. He asked Congress to continue to allocate the funds necessary to institute the law’s provisions, including new programs meant to reduce recidivism rates. He said the department had issued guidance Thursday night to United States attorneys offices across the country on how to put the changes in place, and that he understood the Bureau of Prisons was making similar changes. “To successfully get that passed in both the House and the Senate, I know how difficult that is,” said Mr. Whitaker, who is close to the bill’s chief author, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa. Oversight hearings like the one in the Judiciary Committee are part fact-finding, part political theater. Lawmakers take pains to set up contentious exchanges that can be captured on video and cut into clips for cable news or social media. They raise their voices. They often insinuate a witness is hiding something. Republicans have done it when they were in power, and newly empowered Democrats flashed elements of it on Friday. The trouble for Democrats was, that after Mr. Whitaker declared directly at the hearing’s outset that he had not interfered with Mr. Mueller’s work, they struggled to know where to go next. They repeated questions about his views of the special counsel inquiry and why he had discussed it publicly, with varying twists. Mr. Whitaker basically repeated himself, or said he could not answer. Republicans helped Mr. Whitaker with a two-tone approach. Mr. Collins, the top ranking Republican, vocally and at times voluminously, objected to the germaneness of Democrats’ lines of questioning, trying to make them look unreasonable, while many rank-and-file members used their allotted time to lament all the policy areas — opioids, crime, guns — that Mr. Whitaker ought to be addressing but could not. But Mr. Whitaker hurt his own case, too, by interrupting lawmakers and trying to police their questioning time. Democrats used their questioning to repeatedly insinuate that Mr. Trump had chosen Mr. Whitaker as acting attorney general because of his openly critical views of the special counsel investigation. Mr. Whitaker repeatedly rejected that premise. “I believe the president chose me to be acting attorney general for a couple of reasons,” Mr. Whitaker said. One was his experience as a United States attorney in Iowa. The other was his close work with Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general he served as his chief of staff. “I think the president was comfortable that to continue the momentum at the Department of Justice we had established in addressing these important priority issues like reducing violent crimes, combating the opioid crisis and others, that the president felt I was best positioned to do the duties of attorney general,” Mr. Whitaker said. Mr. Whitaker told Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, that he would not discuss his decision to say last month that the Mueller inquiry was drawing to a close, citing the fact that it is an ongoing investigation.  “It seems to me you did talk about an ongoing investigation,” Ms. Lofgren said, adding that she would like to know what he meant by his comments. Mr. Whitaker would say only that the special counsel investigation was proceeding consistent with the regulations outlined by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the ranking Republican on the committee, criticized Democrats for obsessing over the special counsel investigation, but he had some questions of his own related to its work. The first related to the arrest of Roger J. Stone Jr., one of Mr. Trump’s longtime advisers, by the F.B.I. last month. CNN captured the raid of Mr. Stone’s Florida home live with a camera it had set up on the street, and Mr. Collins wanted to know if the news channel had been tipped off. Mr. Whitaker said the coincidence was “deeply concerning,” but said he did not know of any tip. “I share your concern with the possibility that a media outlet was tipped off to Mr. Stone’s either indictment or arrest before it was made,” Mr. Whitaker said. CNN has said its positioning was just a matter of good reporting and luck. Mr. Collins also asked whether or not Bruce Ohr, a once obscure Justice Department official, still worked there. Mr. Ohr has long been targeted by the president’s allies for contacts he and his wife, who worked as a contractor for Fusion GPS, had with that research firm, which helped compile a salacious dossier about Mr. Trump. Mr. Ohr is still an employee, Mr. Whitaker said, adding that he could not comment further on a “human resource matter.” When Mr. Nadler asked Mr. Whitaker if he had ever been asked to approve any request for action to be taken by Mr. Mueller, Mr. Whitaker replied: “Mr. Chairman, I see that your five minutes is up.” The room then broke into laughter as Mr. Nadler looked up in apparent disbelief, then grinned himself and noted that he did not enforce the five-minute rule during Mr. Whitaker’s opening statement, then asked him to “answer the question, please.” The exchange was a remarkable breach of decorum between two branches of government. It is highly unusual for a witness, much less an official serving in an acting capacity, to challenge the chairman of a congressional committee that oversees his department. Mr. Whitaker’s retorts to lawmakers soon irked Democrats. “Mr. Attorney General, we are not joking here,” said Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, during a later exchange. “And your humor is not acceptable.” As lawmakers pressed him again and again toward discussion of the special counsel’s investigation, Mr. Whitaker made clear that he would much prefer to talk about the department, its policies and its work. “I think it’s important as we sit here today that we understand that this is not a confirmation hearing, that I’m probably going to replaced by Bill Barr in the next week,” he said in one exchange, referring to William P. Barr, the president’s attorney general nominee. In unsolicited remarks, Mr. Whitaker said he was “surprised” that they had not talked about violent crime.  “We haven’t talked about the opioid crisis,” he continued. “We haven’t talked about religious liberty yet. We haven’t talked about free speech on the college campuses, and whole host of issues that I know are very important to you.” He also defended his own integrity: “I do want to make clear that I am personally committed to the integrity of the Department of Justice. Since becoming acting attorney general, I have run the department to the best of my ability, with fidelity to the law and to the Constitution.” Mr. Nadler, the committee chairman, opened the hearing with sharp criticisms of Mr. Whitaker’s conduct while the acting attorney general. In particular he took Mr. Whitaker to task for refusing to recuse himself from overseeing the Russia investigation even after career ethics officials recommended that he do so — a decision that Mr. Nadler said fell “well short of the mark.” It’s one of many actions that Mr. Nadler said raised important questions about why President Trump chose Mr. Whitaker to run the department: Why did the president get rid of Mr. Sessions? Why did Mr. Whitaker choose to oversee an investigation that could harm Mr. Trump? And what does Mr. Trump hope to get from Mr. Whitaker’s leadership? Mr. Collins, the ranking Republican on the committee, angrily attacked Democrats in his opening statement, saying that they were interested in carrying out a “character assassination” of Mr. Whitaker and damaging Mr. Trump, not carrying out oversight of the Department of Justice.  Mr. Collins noted that Mr. Nadler had promised not to issue a subpoena to Mr. Whitaker on Friday, saying Democrats had played a “hide and seek game” in securing permission on Thursday to subpoena Mr. Whitaker. And, noting that Mr. Barr would probably be attorney general by the end of next week, he said Democrats were just interested in having a “show” for partisan purposes. After accusing Mr. Nadler of wasting time, Mr. Collins ended his fiery opening remarks by calling for the committee to adjourn. Mr. Nadler objected, but the request forced a committee vote to keep the hearing going before Mr. Whitaker was even sworn in. Democrats’ antagonizing of Mr. Whitaker began before he was even in the hearing room on Friday. Four Democratic committee chairmen, including Mr. Nadler of the Judiciary Committee, released a letter they sent Mr. Whitaker on Thursday raising new questions about his work for a Florida company, World Patent Marketing, which is accused of defrauding customers. Mr. Whitaker, they said, had ignored their earlier requests for information. And new information obtained by the House indicated that Mr. Whitaker had not returned funds he had been paid by the company, which the chairmen said it had requested be returned to pay victims of the fraud. “To date, you have failed to respond to that letter or provide a single document that we requested,” they wrote. “Since that time, we have obtained new documents showing that you failed to return thousands of dollars that were supposed to be distributed to the victims of World Patent Marketing alleged fraud, despite your involvement with Mr. Cooper in handling complaints from individuals of the company’s actions.” A federal judge shut the company down last year and fined it nearly $26 million. Mr. Whitaker tried to set the tone for the back and forth with lawmakers by saying in his opening statement that he would not answer questions about his conversations with Mr. Trump. “I will continue the longstanding Executive Branch policy and practice of not disclosing information that may be subject to executive privilege,” he said. That answer did not satisfy the chairman, who said he expected Mr. Whitaker to consult the Justice Department and White House to return “in the coming weeks” for a transcribed deposition. “Any questions that are unanswered today or require consultation with the White House will be asked again at that proceeding, and I expect a clean answer or a proper assertion of privilege,” Mr. Nadler said. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] Katie Benner covers the Justice Department. She was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @ktbenner  Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.  @npfandos  Charlie Savage is a Washington-based national security and legal policy correspondent. A recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, he previously worked at The Boston Globe and The Miami Herald. His most recent book is “Power Wars: The Relentless Rise of Presidential Authority and Secrecy.”  @charlie_savage • Facebook ", "id": "5c62ff443a125f5075c094a9", "date": "2019-02-08T14:26:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In Closed Hearing, a Clue About ‘the Heart’ of Mueller’s Russia Inquiry", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Of the few hints to emerge from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, about evidence of possible collusion between President Trump’s campaign and Russia, one of the most tantalizing surfaced almost in passing in a Washington courtroom last week. Comments by one of Mr. Mueller’s lead prosecutors, disclosed in a transcript of a closed-door hearing, suggest that the special counsel continues to pursue at least one theory: that starting while Russia was taking steps to bolster Mr. Trump’s candidacy, people in his orbit were discussing deals to end a dispute over Russia’s incursions into Ukraine and possibly give Moscow relief from economic sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies. The theory was offered almost as an aside by the prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, during a discussion of contacts between Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and a longtime Russian associate, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, whom investigators have linked to Russian intelligence. A closer look at the transcript, released late Thursday, shows that the prosecutors have been keenly focused on discussions the two men had about a plan to end the conflict that followed Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea in 2014. Persuading the United States to ease or end the American-led sanctions imposed to punish Moscow for its aggression has been a primary goal of Russian foreign policy. According to the transcript, which was heavily redacted, Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik repeatedly communicated about a so-called peace plan for Ukraine starting in early August 2016, while Mr. Manafort was still running Mr. Trump’s campaign, and continuing into 2018, months after Mr. Manafort had been charged by the special counsel’s office with a litany of crimes related to his work in the country. The prosecutors claim that Mr. Manafort misled them about those talks and other interactions with Mr. Kilimnik. Pressed by the judge at Monday’s hearing to say why Mr. Manafort’s alleged lies mattered, Mr. Weissmann gave a broad hint about the thrust of the investigation. “This goes to the larger view of what we think is going on, and what we think is the motive here,” Mr. Weissmann said. “This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the special counsel’s office is investigating.” Mr. Weissmann did not elaborate. The hearing’s purpose was narrow — determining whether Mr. Manafort had breached his plea agreement by misleading the prosecutors about Mr. Kilimnik and other matters. Mr. Kilimnik was charged last June with conspiring with Mr. Manafort to obstruct justice by trying to shape the accounts of prospective witnesses in Mr. Manafort’s case. Yet Mr. Weissmann’s cryptic comments suggest that the special counsel’s investigation — which Mr. Trump has sought to dismiss as a witch hunt and which the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, has said will wrap up soon — is still pursuing the central question of whether there was some kind of deal between Russia and the Trump campaign. Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel. To date, prosecutions by the special counsel have skirted that question. They have laid out Russia’s hacking, leaking and social media manipulation, most of it in favor of Mr. Trump. They have charged multiple Trump aides with lying, including the president’s first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who admitted misleading the F.B.I. about his discussions with the Russian ambassador about sanctions. Mr. Trump’s longtime friend Roger J. Stone Jr. was indicted last month on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks, which released tens of thousands of Democratic emails stolen by the Russians. But the essential question of why the Kremlin bet so heavily on Mr. Trump, and whether President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had any indication that Mr. Trump would give him what he desired, has remained unresolved. Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, a Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told CBS News on Thursday that, based on the evidence they have seen so far, the committee’s investigators “don’t have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.” But Mr. Weissmann’s remarks seem to suggest that for the special counsel, at least, that avenue of inquiry is still alive. The sanctions have inflicted substantial pain on the Russian economy. As a candidate and a new president, Mr. Trump seemed skeptical that such punishment was necessary or effective. “Trump’s unusual sympathy and receptivity to Putin and the Kremlin was evident throughout the campaign” and the first few months of his presidency, said John E. Herbst, a former United States ambassador to Ukraine. That pattern, he said, fueled the notion that Mr. Trump might seek a “grand bargain” that would end sanctions, possibly on terms deeply unfavorable to Ukraine. The sanctions also limited business opportunities with Russia. Mr. Trump had long sought a marquee Trump Tower project in Moscow, and at least two aides were pursuing separate nuclear power projects that would have benefited from an end to the sanctions. As Mr. Trump took office, some State Department officials described worrying inquiries that suggested the White House might be preparing to precipitously drop the sanctions. And various intermediaries floated proposals they said would end the sporadic combat in eastern Ukraine between Russian-funded separatist fighters and Ukrainian forces trying to hold back the loss of more territory. Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s longtime fixer, told The New York Times that he left a sealed envelope containing one such plan on Mr. Flynn’s White House desk. Mr. Kilimnik, meanwhile, was trying to use his extensive ties to Mr. Manafort to advance another. It envisioned the return of Viktor F. Yanukovych, a pro-Russia politician who had risen to the presidency of Ukraine in 2010 with the help of Mr. Manafort, who was paid tens of millions of dollars for his efforts. Mr. Yanukovych was forced from office by a popular uprising in 2014 and fled to Russia. Mr. Kilimnik wanted to resurrect him as a semiautonomous leader in eastern Ukraine, a division of the country fiercely opposed by most Ukrainians. In a February 2017 interview with The Times, Mr. Kilimnik described Mr. Manafort as a possible negotiator for the deal. He said that Mr. Manafort had told him that “there is only one enemy — the chaos.” “If there is a serious project that can bring peace to Ukraine, Manafort will be back,” Mr. Kilimnik said at the time. The first discussion between Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik cited by the prosecutors took place on Aug. 2, 2016, at the Grand Havana Room in Manhattan, and also included Rick Gates, Mr. Manafort’s deputy on the Trump campaign and during his Ukraine work. Mr. Weissmann noted that Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates tried to avoid drawing attention at that meeting, leaving separately from Mr. Kilimnik. “That meeting and what happened at that meeting is of significance to the special counsel,” Mr. Weissmann said at the hearing. Mr. Manafort initially told prosecutors he had dismissed Mr. Kilimnik’s proposal out of hand, Mr. Weissmann said. In fact, according to the transcript, Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik talked about the proposal again in December 2016; in January 2017, when Mr. Kilimnik was in Washington for Mr. Trump’s inauguration; and again in Madrid the next month. Mr. Weissmann noted that those talks went forward despite the “enormous amount of attention” in the United States at the time to contacts between Russians and Trump associates. Mr. Manafort’s lawyer, Richard Westling, suggested the discussions were not all that memorable to Mr. Manafort because he had minimal interest in advancing Mr. Kilimnik’s plan. Although the two men revisited the proposal after Mr. Trump’s election, he said, “there is no real follow through.” Mr. Westling said it was not the only such plan afloat — nor was it the only one proposed by Mr. Kilimnik, who has denied having ties to Russian intelligence. Kevin Downing, another lawyer for Mr. Manafort, argued that suspicions about Mr. Kilimnik’s communications were “nonsense” because “the sanctions were going to continue against Russia” whether or not Mr. Trump was elected. What Mr. Manafort and Mr. Kilimnik discussed about the Russia-Ukraine conflict is not all that concerned prosecutors. Another issue is a directive from Mr. Manafort to Mr. Gates to turn over Trump campaign polling data to Mr. Kilimnik in the midst of the presidential race. The transcript suggests that Mr. Manafort claims that he wanted only public data transferred. But Mr. Weissmann told the judge that the question of whether any American, wittingly or unwittingly, engaged with Russians who were interfering in the election relates to “the core” of the special counsel’s inquiry. Mr. Manafort’s allies argue that prosecutors have not proved that Mr. Kilimnik was linked to Russian intelligence, and have suggested that he interacted with the United States Embassy in Kiev. They noted that he traveled freely to the United States and had communications with the State Department. But Judge Amy Berman Jackson seemed to agree with prosecutors that whether Mr. Manafort lied about his contacts with Mr. Kilimnik was important, saying at one point, “I am, actually, particularly concerned about this particular alleged false statement.” During the hearing, prosecutors suggested that Mr. Manafort was to be a spokesman in the United States, apparently for Mr. Kilimnik’s plan to divide Ukraine. “If he were the spokesperson, and denominated as such within the United States,” Mr. Weissmann said, “he would also have access to senior people.” He then broke off, saying, “That’s as far as I can go.” Follow Sharon LaFraniere, Kenneth P. Vogel and Scott Shane on Twitter: @SharonLNYT, @KenVogel and @ScottShaneNYT. Andrew Kramer and Julia Mendel contributed reporting from Kiev, Ukraine.   ", "id": "5c60b1ad3a125f5075c08fd4", "date": "2019-02-10T23:18:42+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "At Democratic Campaign Events, Mueller Report Is Barely Mentioned", "full_text": " RYE, N.H. — For Democratic presidential candidates on Saturday, it wasn’t quite campaigning as usual after the delivery of a long-awaited report from the special counsel roiled Washington over the weekend. But it was pretty close. At events across early primary states, voters asked about health care and school shootings and immigration. Questioners were far less likely to address the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, which was delivered to Attorney General William P. Barr on Friday. Democratic voters said they cared deeply about the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election but weren’t quite sure what to make of the latest twist, exactly. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “We don’t know what’s in it,” said Alane Sullivan, 63, a retired businesswoman, after attending a town hall meeting with Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota in Rye, N.H. “One thing about people in New Hampshire: They are looking for answers, and they knew she wouldn’t know yet.” The lack of questions at campaign events about the report surprised some of the candidates, who had come prepared with lines about the latest development in the nearly two-year investigation. “I tried to kind of delicately bring it up because I think it is the major issue,” Ms. Klobuchar told reporters after her event. Ms. Klobuchar used a question about the separation of powers to mention her desire that the findings be made public — but that was the beginning and the end of public conversation about the topic. In South Carolina, the one question Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, fielded about the Mueller report came from State Senator Marlon Kimpson, a local Democrat and a host of a town hall with Mr. O’Rourke in Charleston. He asked whether Congress should consider impeaching the president “assuming there’s facts and evidence” that President Trump knew about collusion or coordination with Russians who meddled in the 2016 election. But others in attendance figured the answers would come later. “I don’t think you can really process anything right now, because we don’t know what’s in it,” said Amy Drennan, 42, who works for a magazine publisher. Mr. O’Rourke said that the nation should “employ this mechanism of impeachment as an absolute last resort. Ultimately, that will be a decision for our representatives in Congress to make.” But he also said that the matter would “ultimately” be decided “at the ballot box in 2020.” The response received warm rounds of applause. With no detailed information available, Democrats have focused their attention on pressuring Mr. Barr to release the full report quickly. In the hours after Justice Department officials announced that the inquiry was over, Democratic presidential candidates called for the rapid and complete release of the findings. “My No. 1 focus right now is to get it public,” Ms. Klobuchar, who said she was worried that Mr. Barr would resist releasing details, told reporters after her town hall meeting. “Ninety percent of Americans want to see it public.” The conclusion of the investigation signifies a turning point in Donald Trump’s presidency, one that Democrats hope will bolster their efforts to depict his administration as corrupt, self-serving and divisive. But the fact that Mr. Mueller did not charge any Americans with conspiring with Russia to influence the election immediately buoyed Republicans seeking to lift the cloud that has surrounded the president for much of his time in office. Still, Democratic candidates and people who showed up at their campaign events on Saturday tended to focus on more immediate concerns. “Free every Dreamer of any fear of deportation by making them American citizens now,” Mr. O’Rourke proclaimed, responding to a question about the children of immigrants who are known as Dreamers that came from a Hispanic woman who said she herself was one of them. A middle-school-age boy said he wanted to know what could be done to make him feel safer in his classroom. Mr. O’Rourke called for ending the sale of weapons designed “for the express purpose of killing people.” If they are boilerplate liberal messages, the messenger was received as something special, particularly in Charleston, where Mr. O’Rourke, at the town hall-style meeting at a local high school and a Friday night event at an area brewpub, drew largely white and well-heeled crowds bursting with excitement. Here and elsewhere, Mr. O’Rourke delivered his message with a rat-a-tat urgency, his knees bouncing in rhythm with his words, with one hand grasping a microphone and the other one gesticulating like a bull rider out of the chute. Frankie Galizia, 27, a human resources manager from Hilton Head Island, S.C., said he was sold on Mr. O’Rourke because of his “relatable” style and because he hoped he would do a better job on issues he cares about, like L.G.B.T. rights. He wanted to know as much as possible about the Mueller report’s contents, he said. But for now, it “takes a complete back seat to the major issues this country faces.” The situation was much the same in Concord, N.H., where John Hickenlooper, the former Colorado governor, was meeting with voters. Mr. Hickenlooper, standing on a pair of barstools inside a packed brewery, told the tale of his rise from laid-off geologist to state leader, and then took questions on single-payer health care and the national debt. Henry Herndon, 26, an independent voter who works for a green energy advocacy group, said he had little reaction to the news that the report had been completed. He stood in the back of the brewery, chewing on a soft pretzel. “I’m numbed to it,” he said, “the media hype hype hype of this issue.” He didn’t think candidates should be taking on stance on it right now, he said. “There’s nothing to comment on. Yet.” Patricia Shearin, 54, a farmer and a Democrat, said she saw no reason candidates should comment on the report at this stage, and she urged them to refrain from calling for impeachment. “I think if you talk about impeachment you are going to anger those embedded supporters of Trump even more. And we want him out of the White House. I think the report should be made public and hopefully those that are in place to make decisions will be ethical.” Campaigning in South Carolina on Saturday, Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., said Democrats should focus on why Mr. Trump was elected in the first place rather than pin their hopes on impeachment as the way to end his presidency. “To me the most decisive way to put an end to Trumpism is for it be defeated massively at the ballot box,” he told reporters. Lisa Lerer reported from Rye, N.H., Richard Fausset from Charleston, S.C. and Julie Turkewitz from Concord, N.H. Trip Gabriel contributed from Columbia, S.C.   ", "id": "5c96845049f0eacbf105eb0b", "date": "2019-03-23T19:07:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Rod Rosenstein, a Tough-on-Crime Conservative Thrust Into a Political Maelstrom", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Rod J. Rosenstein, a lifelong Republican with a tough-on-crime record, was eager to put his stamp on the Justice Department when he was sworn in as the deputy attorney general in the early months of the Trump administration. Instead, he was abruptly thrust into a political maelstrom after President Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director only two weeks later. Mr. Rosenstein appointed a special counsel to investigate Russia’s election interference and spent the next year and a half defending that inquiry from both Mr. Trump’s unwavering attacks and attempted political intrusion by his congressional allies. Now Mr. Rosenstein plans to step down as the United States’ No. 2 law enforcement official after Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, is confirmed, three administration officials said on Wednesday. Senators could vote to confirm him as early as next month. Mr. Barr will represent a new chapter for the Justice Department and for the Russia investigation, which is nearing its final stages and is expected to be finished in the coming weeks or months, according to senior law enforcement officials. They cautioned that like any investigation, it could be prolonged if the special counsel overseeing the inquiry, Robert S. Mueller III, were to cover uncover new evidence central to his mandate. Mr. Barr, who met with senators on Capitol Hill on Wednesday ahead of his confirmation hearing next week, holds a dim view of aspects of the investigation but affirmed that he would allow it to conclude, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the new chairman of the Judiciary Committee. “He says Bob Mueller is a great guy — ethical, professional,” Mr. Graham said of Mr. Barr in a brief interview. “He believes that he is not on a witch hunt, trusts him to be fair to the president and the country, and has no reason to believe he is not going to do that.” The timing of Mr. Rosenstein’s anticipated departure was unconnected to the Mueller investigation, a Trump administration official said. Mr. Rosenstein privately told Mr. Barr weeks ago that a term of roughly two years seemed like the right length, according to Mr. Graham. After Jeff Sessions’s time as attorney general was done, Mr. Rosenstein was supportive of the decision to replace him with Mr. Barr, according to a person who has discussed the issue with Mr. Rosenstein. He and Mr. Barr worked together at the Justice Department during the George Bush administration. While most deputy attorneys general labor in obscurity, Mr. Rosenstein became a target of criticism from the president and his allies while liberals cheered his efforts to shield the Russia investigation from Mr. Trump’s vitriol. He was given standing ovations at many of his speeches last year and was feted on late-night television. Strangers would ask him for his autograph and for photographs with him at airports and in other public places. But his record on the Russia investigation was more complicated. In the tumultuous days after the president fired Mr. Comey in May 2017, Mr. Rosenstein was shaken and angry, concerned that the White House had used him to justify the firing, associates have said. In meetings with senior law enforcement officials, he suggested secretly taping his conversations with Mr. Trump and invoking the 25th Amendment to remove the president from office, according to people familiar with the discussions and a memo written by Andrew McCabe, then the deputy F.B.I. director. Mr. Rosenstein ultimately sought to stem the chaos by appointing Mr. Mueller as special counsel, but he consulted almost no one, according to three department officials who were not authorized to discuss the appointment. Later, his work to protect the Mueller investigation from Mr. Trump’s congressional allies, whom Democrats accused of trying to subvert sensitive investigations, also drew criticism. To mollify the lawmakers, Mr. Rosenstein made scores of documents related to those inquiries available, moves that ran counter to law enforcement’s reticence to share information about investigations. Senior law enforcement officials noted that under Mr. Rosenstein, the department won one of its most critical battles with conservative lawmakers who had sought the declassification of a wiretap application at the heart of the Russia inquiry. Despite congressional Republicans’ urging, the White House declined to release the document. “Rod was in a truly unusual position and was largely a steady hand,” said Megan L. Brown, a lawyer at the firm Wiley Rein who worked at the Justice Department with Mr. Rosenstein under President George W. Bush. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Law School, Mr. Rosenstein had worked at the Justice Department for nearly 30 years before becoming deputy attorney general. Early on, he was a trial lawyer in Washington and later was the United States attorney for Maryland under Mr. Bush and President Barack Obama. He ascended to his post eager to help Mr. Sessions crack down on violent crime and drug trafficking and became known for the long hours he kept while running the day-to-day work of the Justice Department, sometimes sending emails at 3 a.m., according to two lawyers who worked closely with him. Inside the department, law enforcement officials said Mr. Rosenstein helped usher in the sort of tough-on-crime policies that he supported during his 12 years as the top federal prosecutor in Maryland. He also paid special attention to the nation’s federal prosecutors, some of whom said they felt neglected during past administrations. Mr. Rosenstein has been at the forefront of Trump administration efforts to crack down on Chinese spying while also tightening rules and cracking down on department employees who provide information to the news media to inform the public. He had an uneven relationship with Mr. Trump almost from the start. Though the president blamed Mr. Sessions, who had recused himself from the Russia investigation, for the appointment of a special counsel, Mr. Trump also attacked Mr. Rosenstein repeatedly, calling him “conflicted” in one instance because Mr. Rosenstein had recommended Mr. Comey’s firing but installed Mr. Mueller. The relationship was tested in September after The New York Times revealed Mr. Rosenstein’s questioning in May 2017 of Mr. Trump’s fitness to be president and offers to secretly record conversations with him. Mr. Rosenstein has denied that account. Rattled and unsure how the president would react, Mr. Rosenstein considered quitting and even had aides draft a news release about his resignation. But senior White House advisers urged him to stay on, and, over time, he and the president, who meet or speak by telephone frequently, found common ground. It almost certainly helps that he is no longer the top law enforcement official overseeing the Mueller investigation. After the holidays last month, Mr. Rosenstein and his family visited Mr. Trump at the White House to meet the president and have a photograph taken with him. His uneasy standing with Mr. Trump is not lost on him. At a conference last month where the president was to appear later, Mr. Rosenstein joked: “You let the president know that his favorite deputy attorney general was here.” Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Fandos, Adam Goldman, Michael S. Schmidt and Eileen Sullivan.  ", "id": "5c35fa4a3a125f5075c0387d", "date": "2019-01-09T13:42:33+0000"}]