[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Prosecutor Blocks Gun Law Charges Against Pittsburgh Mayor", "full_text": " PITTSBURGH — A prosecutor refused to approve criminal charges Friday against Pittsburgh's mayor and six City Council members over the passage of firearms restrictions that gun rights advocates say are blatant and deliberate violations of state law. Seven city residents tried to file private criminal complaints against Democratic Mayor Bill Peduto, who signed the legislation into law this week, and council members who voted to approve the bills. The complaints charge the mayor and council with official oppression and other counts. Pennsylvania law allows citizens to file criminal charges, subject to approval by the district attorney. The office of Democratic Allegheny County District Attorney Stephen Zappala Jr. refused to accept the residents' complaints Friday, saying prosecutors would not weigh criminal charges against the mayor and council until the new gun laws begin to take effect in about two months and someone is cited for violating them. \"We will consider a private complaint if somebody is aggrieved by the law,\" Zappala's spokesman, Mike Manko, told the residents Friday. \"Why do I have to be arrested? Why do I have to fall on a sword? Now, I have a criminal record,\" replied Tony Golembiewski, one of the residents who tried to file charges. The gun restrictions were passed after a mass shooting at Pittsburgh's Tree of Life Synagogue that killed 11 worshippers. Gun rights advocates are suing to get the laws overturned, noting Pennsylvania law forbids municipalities from regulating the ownership or possession of firearms and ammunition. Courts have thrown out previous municipal attempts at regulation. The Pittsburgh legislation restricts military-style assault weapons like the AR-15 rifle authorities say was used in the synagogue attack. It also bans most uses of armor-piercing ammunition and high-capacity magazines, and allows the temporary seizure of guns from people who are determined to be a danger to themselves or others. Zappala warned the council in January that it didn't have legal authority to pass gun control legislation and predicted his office would be confronted with residents demanding criminal charges against council members who approved such a law. The council passed a watered-down version of the original bills by a 6-3 vote. In signing them, Peduto said that \"change only happens when you challenge the status quo.\" In a statement, the residents said that Peduto and Council \"knew the illegality of their actions, yet pressed forward with them anyway.\" Peduto's spokesman declined to comment Friday. The residents may appeal Zappala's decision in court. They said Friday that no decision had been made. Residents accused the district attorney of moving the goal posts on the timing of their complaints, contending he had previously implied that council passage and the mayor's signature on the new gun restrictions would be enough to consider their case. \"We figured that was the proper trigger,\" said Val Finnell, a gun rights advocate helping the residents with their complaints. \"He's actually expecting someone to violate the law. This is a travesty of justice.\" Not so, said Manko, the district attorney's spokesman. \"We are not encouraging anyone to sacrifice themselves to authorities,\" he said. ___ Rubinkam reported from northeastern Pennsylvania.", "id": "5cb0a18549f0eacbf1f835e9", "date": "2019-04-12T14:31:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand Votes to Amend Gun Laws After Christchurch Attack", "full_text": " WELLINGTON — Lawmakers in New Zealand voted almost unanimously on Wednesday to change gun laws, less than a month after its worst peacetime mass shooting, in which 50 people were killed in attacks on two mosques in Christchurch. Parliament passed the gun reform bill, the first substantial changes to New Zealand's gun laws in decades, by 119 to 1. It must now receive royal assent from the governor general to become law. \"There have been very few occasions when I have seen parliament come together in this way, and I can't imagine circumstances when it is more necessary,\" Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said in presenting the legislation. Ardern banned the sale of all military style semi-automatics (MSSA) and assault rifles just six days after the March 15 shooting, and announced plans to tighten gun laws. A lone gunman used semi-automatic guns in the Christchurch mosque attacks, killing 50 people as they attended Friday prayers.  Authorities have charged Australian Brenton Tarrant, 28, a suspected white supremacist, with 50 counts of murder following the attacks.  The new curbs bar the circulation and use of most semi-automatic firearms, parts that convert firearms into semi-automatic firearms, magazines over a certain capacity, and some shotguns. Existing gun laws had provided for a standard A-category gun license covering semi-automatics limited to seven shots. The bill grants an amnesty until Sept. 30 for people to surrender prohibited items. More than 300 weapons had already been handed in, police minister Stuart Nash told parliament. The government has begun work on a second arms amendment bill it hopes to introduce in June, he said, adding that the measure would tackle issues regarding a gun registry, among others. The government has faced criticism from some quarters for rushing through the bill. Wednesday's dissenting vote came from David Seymour, leader of the small free-market ACT Party, who questioned why the measure was being rushed through. Ardern said majority lawmakers believe such guns had no place in New Zealand. \"We are ultimately here because 50 people died and they do not have a voice,\" she added. \"We, in this house, are their voice and today we have used that voice wisely.\" Since last month's shooting, New Zealand has tightened security and canceled several events in Auckland, its largest city, intended to commemorate ANZAC Day on April 25.  \"There is no information about a specific threat to ANZAC events,\" police official Karyn Malthus, said in a statement. \"However it’s important that the public be safe, and feel safe, at events in the current environment.\" In 1996, neighboring Australia banned semi-automatic weapons and launched a gun buyback after the Port Arthur massacre that killed 35 people.   (Reporting by Praveen Menon; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)", "id": "5cadc00b49f0eacbf1f82462", "date": "2019-04-10T10:04:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘There Will Be Changes’ to Gun Laws, New Zealand Prime Minister Says", "full_text": " • New Zealand grappled with grief and horror on Sunday, two days after a gunman opened fire at two mosques in the city of Christchurch, killing at least 50 people. The terrorist attack appeared to have been carried out by a white nationalist who posted a racist manifesto online and streamed live video of the killings on Facebook. • Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Sunday that the suspect, an Australian, would be tried in New Zealand, and that her government would discuss gun regulation at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said. • Minutes before the shooting began on Friday, Ms. Ardern was emailed a copy of the manifesto purported to be from the gunman, her office said. Many news outlets and lawmakers also received the email. • The family of the suspect, identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, has apologized for the attack. In an interview published online on Sunday by Australia’s 9News, his grandmother said the family was “shattered” and denounced his actions as “unrepairable.” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Sunday that the suspect charged in the Christchurch shootings, an Australian citizen, would be tried in New Zealand. A 28-year-old man from Australia has been charged with murder and appeared Saturday morning in a Christchurch courtroom. Court papers identified him as Brenton Harrison Tarrant. Ms. Ardern said he would face more charges, but she did not say whether terrorism charges were being considered. She said she was seeking advice on whether Mr. Tarrant might be extradited to Australia, but that his trial would take place in New Zealand. “He will certainly face the justice system of New Zealand for the terror attack he has committed here,” she said. There was no other shooter, Ms. Ardern said. She said one person had been taken into custody as a result of evidence collected during the investigation but that there was no evidence he was linked to the attack. Ms. Ardern said that her government would discuss the New Zealand’s gun laws at a meeting on Monday. “There will be changes to our gun laws,” she said at an afternoon news conference. She also said she would look into reports that there had been a surge in gun sales in New Zealand since the attack on Friday. The shooting has vaulted New Zealand into what could be a divisive political battle over gun control in the country, where many people own weapons, with few restrictions. The authorities say the suspect in the assault used five guns he had acquired legally, including two semiautomatic assault weapons. Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months. Within hours of the Friday killings, the prime minister promised changes to gun laws and said regulations of semiautomatic weapons were “one of the issues.” New Zealand’s attorney general, David Parker, appeared to go beyond that statement at a vigil for the victims on Saturday, indicating that semiautomatic weapons would be banned, but he later backtracked. Mr. Parker told Radio New Zealand that had been trying to reflect Ms. Ardern’s comments that “we need to ban some semiautomatics, perhaps all of them.” “Those decisions have yet to be taken, but the prime minister has signaled that we are going to look at that issue,” Mr. Parker told the broadcaster. Licensed New Zealand gun owners pushed back. The Kiwi Gun Blog, a gun-rights online publication, said that one of the assailant’s goals was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating with him.” There is no dispute that acquiring a military-style semiautomatic weapon is relatively easy in New Zealand, where guns are plentiful. According to a 2017 small arms survey, there are more than 1.2 million firearms among the population of 4.6 million. Under New Zealand law, anyone 16 or older may seek a firearms license, and anyone 18 or older who has applied for a firearms license can seek a permit to possess a military-style semiautomatic weapon. In the United States, the National Rifle Association, a leading advocate of gun-owner rights, issued its first statement on the attack, denouncing the killer while saying nothing about the weapons used. “It doesn’t matter if these senseless tragedies occur in the United States or abroad, our deepest sympathies are with the victims and their families,” said Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the group. “This was the act of a monster. To the extent the N.R.A. is ridiculed for extending our deepest sympathies to those impacted by this horrific event, we make no apologies for our thoughts, words or prayers.” In an exclusive interview with Australia’s 9News, the family of the suspect condemned the attack and offered an apology to the families of the victims. “We’re so sorry for the families over there, for the dead and the injured,” Terry Fitzgerald, the suspect’s uncle, said. “We can’t think nothing else. We just want to go home and hide.” The suspect’s grandmother Marie Fitzgerald, 81, said: “We are all gobsmacked. We don’t know what to think.” “The media is saying he’s planned it for a long time,” she added. “So he’s obviously not of sound mind, I don’t think.” According to the 9News’s report, Brenton Harrison Tarrant had traveled to Europe after his father died of cancer 2010. The trips came at a time when Islamic extremism was on the rise, it said. “It was only since he traveled overseas, I think, that that boy has changed,” Ms. Fitzgerald said. They first learned that Mr. Tarrant was the suspect in the massacre while watching television, the report said. At first, the uncle said, they couldn’t believe it. But then they saw his photo. “It’s unrepairable,” Ms. Fitzgerald said. Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the man charged in the Christchurch shootings, was a member of the Bruce Rifle Club in New Zealand, the club confirmed on Sunday. The club is about a 35-minute drive from Dunedin, New Zealand, where Mr. Tarrant lived. In a statement, the club said it had about 100 members, all of whom are licensed to own and use firearms. Mr. Tarrant joined the Bruce Rifle Club last February, Scott Williams, the club’s vice president, said in an interview. He said Mr. Tarrant appeared to already have shooting skills and typically went to the range by himself. The club told the police on Friday that Mr. Tarrant had been a member, and the police visited the club on Sunday, Mr. Williams said. He said he could not say how often Mr. Tarrant went to the club because his attendance records had been turned over to the police. Mr. Williams said he had seen Mr. Tarrant at the club with a bolt-action hunting rifle and an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but didn’t know where Mr. Tarrant got them. He said he and other members had seen no indication that Mr. Tarrant had violent intent. “He was just normal,” Mr. Williams said. “He was polite. He would help put things away. He would help set up. He worked like a Trojan.” The club has been closed until further notice, Mr. Williams said. In a live video on Facebook on Saturday, a former member of the New Zealand military named Pete Breidahl said he had reported the Bruce Rifle Club to the police years ago after a visit because he had “serious concerns about the mental stability of some of those members.” He also posted an image of a comment dated Nov. 20, 2017, about the club, in which he said that at least half the members would be going home to “their mums basement and onto the internet for a night of heroic talk in gun forums.” Mr. Williams declined to comment on Mr. Breidahl’s Facebook video. The airport in Dunedin, the city where the suspect in the Christchurch shootings had lived, was closed Sunday evening after a “report of a suspicious package on the airfield,” the authorities said. “Police are at the scene and specialist teams have been deployed to determine the nature of the package,” the New Zealand police said in a statement. Earlier Sunday evening, an armed police officer stood watch outside the address in Dunedin that was listed in court documents as the home of Brenton Harrison Tarrant, the suspect. About a five-minute drive from the center of Dunedin, the second-largest city on the South Island of New Zealand, the pale blue-gray house had air-conditioning units, wide rectangular windows with open curtains, a satellite dish sitting at the top of a cement stairway and an overgrown yard. The mailbox bore a sticker reading: “NO JUNK MAIL. Thank you!” Several people who lived nearby said they did not know many of their neighbors and had not met Mr. Tarrant. They described the neighborhood in the Andersons Bay suburb of Dunedin as a mix of rented and owned homes. Carl Tainui, who lives nearby, was out walking Sunday evening and said he was “shocked” that such “total hatred” had allegedly originated so close to his home. Over the weekend, the police had blocked off the road in the Dunedin neighborhood while a bomb squad searched the area. The street was shut down from Friday evening until midday Saturday. By Sunday evening, journalists swarmed the area, knocking on doors and filming outside Mr. Tarrant’s house. Amy Hanson, 28, moved into a house across the street from Mr. Tarrant’s last year. She said that she had seen Mr. Tarrant’s address listed last week on a rental site for $280 a week and that her sister’s boyfriend had planned to view the property last Tuesday. She said the listing had since been removed. “He must have planned to move out, knew he was going to go to jail or die,” she said. “The weirdest thing is, he is my age. He is so young. I just don’t get it.” Thirty-four victims of the shootings remain in Christchurch Hospital, 12 of them in critical condition, officials said on Sunday. A 4-year-old girl also remains in critical condition at a children’s hospital in Auckland, where she was flown after the attack. A Christchurch Hospital spokesman, David Meates, said that on Saturday the hospital treated nine new victims of the Friday attack. They arrived with cuts, embedded glass fragments and injuries to their backs, knees and feet. Mr. Meates said the hospital was running seven operating theaters on Sunday instead of the usual three. “Many of these people need multiple surgeries due to the complex nature of their injuries, and the need to provide a number of shorter surgeries in a phased way so patients have the best chance of recovery,” he said. Ms. Ardern said the list of people killed was still provisional and that the families of victims would receive financial assistance. She said families would receive the bodies of victims starting Sunday evening, with all bodies expected to be returned by Wednesday. [Here’s how to help the victims of the Christchurch shootings.] A live video posted to social media appeared to show the attack at Al Noor Mosque, where 42 people were killed. The clip appeared to have been taken from a camera worn by a gunman. 3 The gunman’s video shows  him driving away six minutes  after the first shot. 1 The gunman parked in the alley next to the mosque, according to the live video. Al Noor Mosque Deans Ave. 2 He opened fire at around 1:40 p.m. Re-entered mosque  and began firing Resumed firing outside the mosque Shot a bystander First shot fired Parked Exited mosque Got new  gun from parked car Exited mosque Drove away 1 min. later 2 3 4 5 6 3 The gunman’s video shows  him driving away six minutes  after the first shot. 1 The gunman parked in the alley next to the mosque, according to the live video. South Hagley Park Al Noor Mosque Deans Ave. 2 He opened fire at around 1:40 p.m. Re-entered mosque and began firing Resumed firing outside the mosque Shot a bystander First shot fired Parked Exited mosque Got a new gun from the parked car Left mosque Drove away 1 minute later 2 3 4 5 6 3 The gunman’s video  shows him driving away  six minutes after  the first shot. 1 The gunman parked in the alley next to the mosque, according to the live video. Al Noor Mosque Deans Ave. South Hagley Park 2 He opened fire at around 1:40 p.m. Resumed firing outside the mosque Re-entered mosque and began firing Shot a bystander First shot fired Parked Exited mosque Got a new gun from the parked car Left mosque Drove away 1 minute later 2 3 4 5 6 The airline Air New Zealand said one of its employees, Lilik Abdul Hamid, had died in the attack on Friday. The company’s chief executive, Christopher Luxon, said in a statement that Mr. Hamid had been an aircraft maintenance engineer with Air New Zealand for 16 years. “He first got to know the team even earlier when he worked with our aircraft engineers in a previous role overseas,” Mr. Luxon said. “The friendships he made at that time led him to apply for a role in Air New Zealand and make the move to Christchurch.” Mr. Hamid is survived by his wife and two children, Mr. Luxon said. Later on Sunday, the company PricewaterhouseCoopers said that one of its employees, Areeb Ahmed, had also been killed. In a Facebook post, the company said it had learned of Mr. Ahmed’s death from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan. “Areeb was a loved and respected member of our PwC family who lived our values every day,” it said. “His smile, warmth, dedication, respect and humor will be deeply missed.” The prime minister also said that Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, had shared her condolences over the shootings, parts of which were live-streamed on the social media platform. On Sunday, Facebook said it had removed 1.5 million videos of the attack that had been posted worldwide, including 1.2 million that were blocked at upload. The company said it was also removing edited versions of the video that did not show graphic content. The police on Sunday said the death toll had risen to 50 as officials discovered another body at the mosque on Deans Avenue, where most of the victims had been killed. Another 50 people were injured. “As of last night we were able to take all of the victims from both of those scenes and in doing so we have located a further victim,” said Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner. Mr. Bush said a list of victims’ names has been compiled with the help of senior religious leaders and had been shared with family members. He said the list was an informal one, though, and officials would not confirm the names publicly until the bodies had been formally identified. The bodies have not yet been released to the victims’ families, but Mr. Bush said he was conscious that Muslim religious practice requires prompt burial. “We are aware of the cultural and religious needs so we are doing that as quickly and sensitively as possible,” he said. Police officials say it took 36 minutes from when they received the first call about a shooting at a mosque to when the suspect was taken in custody. “That is an incredibly fast response time,” said John Price, commander of the district police. “You have a mobile offender across a large metropolitan city, and I am very happy with the response of our staff.” “I can tell you that within six minutes of police being called, on 111, within six minutes armed police staff were on the scene,” Mike Bush, New Zealand’s police commissioner, said on Sunday. “Within 10 minutes, our armed offenders squad were on the scene, and within 36 minutes, we had that mobile offender in our custody.” Officials said the gunman arrived at a second mosque, where he continued his rampage, seven minutes after leaving the first. The suspect was later arrested in a car, which was carrying improvised explosive devices, by two police officers. Mr. Bush said the officers prevented further deaths. “Those two police officers acted with absolute courage,” Mr. Bush said on Sunday. “I’m so proud of what they’ve done. They have prevented further deaths and risked their lives doing so.” Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said that nine minutes before the attack, her office was among more than 30 lawmakers and news organizations that received a manifesto purported to be from the gunman. In accordance with protocol, her office forwarded it to parliamentary security within two minutes of receiving it, she said. Had the manifesto provided details that could have been acted on immediately, Ms. Ardern said, her office would have acted on them. She said she had read parts of the manifesto, which she called “deeply disturbing.” Abdul Aziz, 48, was in the Linwood mosque praying with his four sons when he heard gunshots. He immediately knew something was wrong. Rather than running from the sound, he ran toward it and grabbed the first thing he could find — a credit card machine — and flung it at the attacker. He tried to distract the attacker in a move that many fellow worshipers have described as heroic, weaving through cars in the parking lot, attempting to draw the gunman’s attention away from the mosque. Latef Alabi, the acting imam of Linwood, told The Associated Press he believed the death toll would have been far higher at the mosque without Mr. Aziz’s actions. Mr. Aziz said he saw the attacker drop one of his guns and managed to grab it but when he pulled the trigger, the gun was empty. When the gunman went to his car, presumably to grab more ammunition, Mr. Aziz said he threw the gun at the assailant’s windshield, shattering the glass. The assailant sped away. Mr. Aziz remained humble, saying in an interview with The New York Times that anyone in his position would have done the same. “I was prepared to give my life to save another life,” he said. Originally from Kabul, Afghanistan, Mr. Aziz lived in Australia for 27 years after having fled the violence of his home country. He moved to New Zealand a few years ago, describing it as a beautiful country. Reporting was contributed by Charlotte Graham-McLay, Damien Cave and Jamie Tarabay from Christchurch, New Zealand; Emily Steel from Dunedin, New Zealand; and Sarah Mervosh from New York.    ", "id": "5c8dce8749f0eacbf105d7f1", "date": "2019-03-17T04:33:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Readers: Join a Conversation About Gun Laws", "full_text": " Would you be interested in speaking to other readers — even those who might disagree with your views? Gun violence is a real fear in the minds of many Americans. For others, the right to bear arms is one of the most fundamental enshrined in the Constitution. Little surprise, then, that the issue has become a point of contention in Congress and beyond.  We’re looking for readers to participate in a thoughtful conversation on gun policy in America as part of a project featuring a series of such conversations on important issues facing the country. We welcome and encourage all voices and points of view as long as they include an openness to respectfully discussing this issue with others. Have you, or someone close to you, been a victim of gun violence? Are you a teacher who wants to be trained to shoot, or a mother who feels more comfortable with a gun in the home? Do you collect guns, but support a national registry? We want to hear from a diversity of voices in this debate.  Your information will not be shared without your permission. ", "id": "5c79679649f0eacbf105ae61", "date": "2019-03-01T17:09:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand's New Gun Laws Get Final Assent to Take Effect", "full_text": " WELLINGTON, New Zealand — New Zealand's governor general has formally signed into effect sweeping gun laws outlawing military style weapons, less than a month after a man used such guns to kill 50 people and wound dozens at two mosques in Christchurch. Governor General Patsy Reddy signed the bill Thursday as police said a buyback program will be announced to collect the now-banned weapons. The weapons will be illegal starting at midnight, but police said an amnesty will be in effect until details of the buyback are announced. The House of Representatives passed the legislation by a final vote of 119 to 1 Wednesday. Anyone who retains such a weapon now faces a penalty of up to five years in prison. Exemptions allow heirloom weapons or those used for professional pest control.", "id": "5caf839949f0eacbf1f82f3f", "date": "2019-04-11T18:11:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "When Sheriffs Say No: Disputes Erupt Over Enforcing New Gun Laws", "full_text": " ALBUQUERQUE — New Mexico’s governor is feuding with county sheriffs, accusing them of going “rogue” by refusing to enforce new gun control legislation. Counties in Oregon are passing militia-backed measures against stricter gun laws. Washington State is warning sheriffs they could face legal action if they don’t run enhanced background checks approved by voters. As states have approved dozens of restrictive gun control measures since the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last year, efforts to resist such laws have gathered strength around the nation as rural gun owners say their rights are being violated. “This is just a gun-grab measure,” Shane Ferrari, the sheriff of San Juan County, said of a provision that requires background checks on most gun sales in New Mexico, signed into law this month by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat. Sheriff Ferrari, a Republican, said he believed that the new law was a violation of the Second Amendment and the state’s existing gun laws, and that he would not enforce it unless a court ruling told him to do so. And all but a handful of counties in New Mexico have expressed similar opposition. The impasses — between local sheriffs and elected officials in states now controlled by Democrats — are raising the specter of a constitutional showdown over enforcement of the new gun laws. Some of the gun rights advocates say they are simply drawing inspiration from strategies employed by liberal critics of the Trump administration: They compare their efforts to declare “Second Amendment sanctuary” counties to so-called sanctuary cities opposing the federal government’s immigration crackdown. “Critics are calling these new laws Gestapo-style tactics when that’s the furthest thing from the truth,” said Victor Snover, the mayor of Aztec, a town in San Juan County that was shaken by a school shooting in 2017 in which a former student killed two students and himself. Mr. Snover, a Democrat who is also a teacher at Aztec High School, called the measure “common sense and reasonable.” He added, “But unfortunately we live in a hyperpartisan time when avoiding tragedies isn’t viewed as reasonable.” In New Mexico and elsewhere, the disputes generally reflect tension between cities that support stricter gun laws and rural areas that want to bolster protections for gun owners. The pushback against new laws generally seeks to maintain existing gun ownership rights; most have not yet been challenged in court. The disputes around the country over the gun control measures raise vexing questions about the rule of law. Governors claim that local sheriffs cannot pick which laws to enforce, but some states have already grappled with low compliance with other gun laws. “There’s a real tension on this issue between urban and rural identities that doesn’t necessarily fit nicely into party loyalties,” said Lonna Atkeson, a political-science professor at the University of New Mexico. She noted that some of the counties vehemently opposing the state’s new gun control legislation are solidly Democratic. Elsewhere, dozens of counties in Illinois have approved “gun sanctuary” resolutions meant to signal local discontent with gun control measures approved by the State Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats. Among the measures approved by Illinois last year was one requiring a 72-hour waiting period for all gun purchases and a so-called red flag bill, which allows relatives and law enforcement officials to ask courts to confiscate firearms from people deemed a threat to themselves or others. In Oregon, where the State Legislature is currently debating several gun control measures — including a bill that would forbid the sale of assault rifles to people under 21 — voters in eight counties have approved ordinances stating that residents have the right to own semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity magazines, even if federal and state law bans them. Some of the most public discontent, however, has come in Washington, where a divide between rural and urban areas has become a recurring political split. In November, nearly 60 percent of Washington State voters approved an initiative prohibiting anyone under 21 from purchasing a semiautomatic rifle and requiring buyers to undergo enhanced background checks. (State law already barred those under 21 from buying a handgun.) Long guns that employ manual operations, including pumps and bolts, could still be purchased at age 18. The law also mandated a 10-day waiting period and completion of a firearms training course. The initiative also allowed prosecutors to charge gun owners with crimes if the gun was stored improperly and someone unable to legally own a gun used it to commit a crime. Most of the law is scheduled to take effect July 1, though the Second Amendment Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Washington State that supports gun rights, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block it. Already, though, more than a dozen sheriffs in Washington have said they will refuse to enforce the law. That has set up a showdown between them and Bob Ferguson, the attorney general. Mr. Ferguson has warned the sheriffs that they have a legal responsibility to enforce the new law in the same manner they are sworn to uphold other laws prohibiting criminal activity. “Local law enforcement officials are entitled to their opinions about the constitutionality of any law, but those personal views do not absolve us of our duty to enforce Washington laws and protect the public,” Mr. Ferguson wrote in a letter last month. But Bob Songer, the sheriff of Klickitat County, a rural county in southern Washington, said that the law violated gun owners’ rights. “There is no way in hell I’m going to be going after their guns if they are honest citizens,” he said. “What I’ve told people is: I’m not giving up my guns, and I don’t expect them to give up theirs.” The sheriff dismissed the pressure from the state’s attorney general to abide by the law. “They are not the boss of the sheriff,” he said. “The only bosses I have are the voters of Klickitat County.” Simon Romero reported from Albuquerque and Timothy Williams from New York.   ", "id": "5c86df4749f0eacbf105c81c", "date": "2019-03-11T22:19:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Top EU Court Should Dismiss Czech Bid to Loosen Gun Laws: Adviser", "full_text": " BRUSSELS — The European Union's top court should dismiss a Czech challenge to tighter EU controls on firearms introduced after the 2015 Paris attacks, the court's legal adviser said on Thursday. The Czech Republic maintains that the tougher European Commission rules, which make it harder for EU citizens to obtain semi-automatic rifles, were unduly restrictive for law-abiding gun-owners such as hunters.  It also says the Commission rules encroached on crime prevention policy, a matter for the national governments of EU member states.  \"The court should dismiss the Czech Republic's action in its entirety,\" Advocate General Eleanor Sharpston said in a statement. She said the EU directive mainly concerned the free movement of firearms and that this had an impact on crime prevention, but did not harmonize national crime prevention policies. She added that the Commission did look into the impact of its planned rules and that its actions, notably reclassifying certain firearms as prohibited goods, were in line with the principle of proportionality. Judges at the European Court of Justice follow the advice of their advocate generals in the majority of cases although they are not bound to do so. The ECJ generally issues rulings within 2-4 months of an advocate general's opinion. In 2017, the EU toughened laws against purchasing certain semi-automatic rifles like those used by Islamic State militants in the Paris attacks, and also made it easier to track weapons in national databases. The Czech Republic filed a lawsuit arguing that the directive would just shift weapons to the black market and do nothing to increase security in the country, where hunting is a popular pastime and gun attacks are rare. After 50 people were killed in a shooting at a New Zealand mosque on March 15, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern banned the sale of all military-style, semi-automatic and assault rifles. The New Zealand parliament voted overwhelmingly on Wednesday for tough new firearms laws. (This story has been refiled to fix typo to \"for\" in last paragraph)  (Reporting by Clare Roth; Editing by Philip Blenkinsop and Mark Heinrich)", "id": "5caf437f49f0eacbf1f82cc8", "date": "2019-04-11T13:37:41+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand’s Gun Laws Draw Scrutiny After Mosque Shootings", "full_text": " The shootings that killed at least 49 people at two mosques in New Zealand on Friday have placed new scrutiny on New Zealand’s gun laws and sparked a fervent debate about whether they were a factor in the gunman’s decision to carry out his attack there. The man was identified in court papers as Brenton Harrison Tarrant, 28, and officials have said he was an Australian citizen, which has led to comparisons between gun laws in Australia and in New Zealand. While New Zealand’s laws governing the purchase of semiautomatic rifles are more restrictive than those in the United States, the country is much freer with firearms than Australia is, allowing most guns to be purchased without requiring them to be tracked. “New Zealand is almost alone with the United States in not registering 96 percent of its firearms — and those are its most common firearms, the ones most used in crimes,” said Philip Alpers of GunPolicy.org, a clearinghouse for gun law data worldwide. “There are huge gaps in New Zealand law, even if some of its laws are strong.” New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, said on Saturday that five firearms, including two semiautomatic weapons, were used in the attacks. “If he went to New Zealand to commit these crimes,” Mr. Alpers said, “one can assume that the ease of obtaining these firearms may have been a factor in his decision to commit the crime in Christchurch.” [Get the latest updates on the New Zealand terrorist attack here.] In the years since a gunman killed 35 people in Port Arthur, Tasmania, in 1996, Australia has embarked on one of the world’s most expansive efforts to rid a society of gun violence. Officials significantly strengthened gun laws, severely restricted semiautomatic weapons and engaged in a buyback program that took more than 650,000 firearms off the streets. The gun laws in New Zealand are more layered, and do not fit easily into a pro or anti-gun rubric. Semiautomatic rifles and handguns, for example, require special licenses; a person can only buy one semiautomatic weapon at a time. “The police will look very askance at you if you want four or five of them,” Mr. Alpers said. “It gets harder and harder if you want more and more.” Still, Mr. Alpers said, it is possible to obtain a large cache of weapons — either by acting alone or if more than one person is purchasing. As the law stands now, any person age 16 or older with an entry-level firearm license can keep any number of common rifles and shotguns without an official record of those guns being kept. Most of the guns in circulation can be sold on the internet or through ads in newspapers, and the most popular types of firearms can lawfully change hands in private homes or even hotel parking lots with no requirement that a record of the transaction be kept. Still, the country has generally been safe from gun massacres. Its last mass shooting, which left 13 people dead, was in 1990 — and it led to tighter rules around semiautomatic weapons. Police officers do not generally carry firearms and murders are rare; the death toll from Friday’s terrorist attack is roughly equivalent to the number of murders that occur in the country each year. The annual tally of gun homicides specifically is even lower. “New Zealanders are by and large safe users of firearms and that has led everybody to relax,” Mr. Alpers said. “It’s led New Zealanders to think they don’t have a problem.” [The gunman appeared to be steeped in the culture of the extreme-right internet.] At the same time, however, New Zealand’s gun culture is significant and deeply ingrained. Like the United States, Australia and Canada, New Zealand’s frontier history has led to a proliferation of guns used for sport, for protecting wide open spaces from animals, and for dealing with problems like wounded cattle. Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun licensing age, 238,000 — 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to GunPolicy.org. “Our gun laws will change, now is the time,” Ms. Ardern said Saturday, though she did not say what that legislation would look like. “People will be seeking change, and I am committed to that.” Mr. Alpers predicted that lawmakers would work to make guns harder to obtain. “This will certainly change things in New Zealand,” he said. “I can’t think of a country that’s more likely to change its gun laws after something like this.”   ", "id": "5c8bd00049f0eacbf105d4b0", "date": "2019-03-15T16:15:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand Took 6 Days to Plan New Gun Laws. Here’s How Other Countries Reacted to Shootings.", "full_text": " It took New Zealand just six days to announce an immediate plan to change to the nation’s gun policy after a gunman killed 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch last week. On Thursday, a day after the first victims were laid to rest, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced a national ban on all military-style semiautomatic weapons, all high-capacity ammunition magazines and all parts that allow weapons to be modified into the kinds of guns used in last week’s attack. Ms. Ardern is expected to encounter little resistance in Parliament. The new law could be in place as soon as April 11. It is unclear how the weapons ban will be felt in New Zealand, where there are plenty of guns but relatively few murders. Since 2007, gun homicides have been in the single digits every year except in 2009, when there were 11. But the swift action already stands in stark contrast to the federal response to mass shootings in the United States, which has the highest rate of gun ownership in the world and is one of only a few countries that start with the assumption that gun ownership is a right, not a privilege. After a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas in 2017, it took 443 days for the United States to ban bump stocks, the attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts, which the gunman used in the attack. And after a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., last year led to a wave of student activism, the House of Representatives voted to require background checks for all gun purchasers in February. It was the first significant gun control bill to clear the chamber in a quarter of a century, but it was unlikely to even be taken up in the Republican-controlled Senate. In most countries, mass shootings account for a small proportion of gun deaths. But they are often the political impetus for legislative change that can help prevent other kinds of gun violence, including intimate-partner violence and suicide. Here is a look at how some other countries took action after mass shootings. ____ Ms. Ardern said the overhauls planned in New Zealand were partially inspired by changes Australia made after a mass shooting there in 1996. After a gunman with a semiautomatic rifle killed 35 people near a popular tourist site in the Tasmanian town of Port Arthur, John Howard, Australia’s conservative prime minister at the time, introduced a federal law to officially make guns a privilege, not a right. Gun owners were forced to provide a valid reason for owning a weapon, such as farming or hunting. Licensing rules were tightened, a 28-day waiting period for gun purchases was imposed and a national gun registry was established. The overhaul also severely restricted firearms, including a ban on almost all automatic and semiautomatic rifles, as well as shotguns. Australia bought back more than 650,000 firearms, to the resentment of many rural gun owners. Australia has not had a shooting as deadly as the Port Arthur massacre since 1996. Research shows the country also saw a decline in homicide and suicide after the legislative change, although researchers disagree about whether the ban can be credited for reducing homicides, which had already been declining. Australia is a much smaller country than the United States and also had fewer barriers to enacting gun control: There is no constitutional right to bear arms, for example, and there are no pro-gun lobbying groups with the influence of the National Rifle Association. ____ In 1987, a gunman in the southern English town of Hungerford killed 16 people, leading to tough British laws that required shotgun owners to register their weapons and prohibited semiautomatic weapons. Nearly a decade later, another gunman walked into a primary school in Dublane, Scotland, and killed 16 small children and their teacher. The gunman had been granted permits for all four guns used in the shooting, including two semiautomatic pistols. Afterward, the British government took action to limit gun ownership by civilians. By the end of 1997, Parliament had outlawed the private ownership of nearly all handguns. ____ In 2002, a 19-year-old expelled student returned to his high school in Erfurt, in eastern Germany, armed, and killed 16 people. That year, the German government tightened gun laws, including raising the legal age for carrying sports weapons to 21 from 18 and requiring gun buyers under 25 to present certification that they are medically and psychologically fit. Germany strengthened gun laws even further after another shooting in 2009, when a 17-year-old got his hands on one of his father’s guns and went on a rampage at his school in Winnenden, in southwest Germany, killing 15 people. The new regulations included allowing for random checks on weapons owners. As of 2015, gun-related crimes were far more unusual in Germany than in the United States. ____ Canada has had tough restrictions on handguns and automatic weapons since the 1930s. But the rules were expanded to include rifles and shotguns after a gunman with a semiautomatic hunting rifle stormed an engineering school in Montreal in 1989. Shouting “I hate feminists,” he separated the women from the men and killed 14 female students before turning the gun on himself. After that shooting, rifles and other long guns had to be registered like handguns and a majority of semiautomatic weapons. Gun owners were also required to obtain a license. But the long gun registry was unpopular in rural and northern areas, and, over the objections of police forces and some provinces, was abolished in 2012. Efforts to keep track of rifle and shotgun sales — the majority of firearms in Canada — continue to be much debated. The province of Quebec introduced its own long gun registry last year. Max Fisher contributed reporting Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh   ", "id": "5c93dc1e49f0eacbf105e54a", "date": "2019-03-21T18:45:24+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New York Passes First Major Gun Control Bills Since Sandy Hook", "full_text": "  [What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.] ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Tuesday approved the most comprehensive set of gun bills in the state in six years, including measures that would ban bump stocks, prohibit teachers from carrying guns in schools and extend the waiting period for gun buyers who do not pass an instant background check. In total, six gun bills passed easily through the State Senate and Assembly, a remarkable sight in a Capitol that for years had resisted almost all new legislation on the subject. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, last ushered a major gun safety package into law in 2013, after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. The governor successfully corralled recalcitrant Senate Republicans into supporting the so-called Safe Act that expanded the state’s ban on assault weapons, tightened certification requirements, increased criminal penalties for illegal guns and closed private sale loopholes. Mr. Cuomo has described the Safe Act as one of his signature achievements. But it has also become a rallying cry for some gun owners and Republican politicians who felt it overreached. “Sometimes history irrefutably bears out your actions,” the governor said on Tuesday, at a news conference lined with gun safety advocates. “Today is the next evolution in this ongoing crusade.” The relative ease of the laws’ passage highlighted, for the second time in just two days, the upheaval that November’s election brought to Albany. Democrats captured the Senate for the first time in a decade, delivering one-party control of state government. Since the legislative session began this month, both chambers have sent long-stymied bills in rapid-fire procession to the governor’s desk. On Monday, for example, a bill to protect child sex abuse victims sailed through the Legislature, 13 years after its introduction. The Senate, which under Republican rule never allowed the bill to reach the floor for a vote, unanimously approved it. Tuesday’s marquee gun bills passed largely along partisan lines. No Republican senators voted to extend the waiting period for completing background checks to 30 days from three. Just one voted for the proposal to ban arming teachers. The most debated item was a so-called red flag bill, which would allow family members, school officials or law enforcement to ask courts to temporarily block someone from buying or owning a gun, if the judge decided that person posed a potential risk. That provision in particular drew an emotional response from Linda Beigel Schulman, whose son, Scott, grew up on Long Island and was teaching at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. during the massacre there last year; he was killed while helping students flee the shooter. “Parkland would’ve never happened if they had a red flag law,” Ms. Schulman said while sitting alongside Mr. Cuomo, adding that one of the killer’s former teachers told her that the shooter had showed disturbing tendencies. Senator Brian Kavanagh, a Democrat from New York City who sponsored the bill, said the number of New York state residents who die each year — 772 in 2017, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — because of guns “is unacceptable.” He added: “It’s also preventable.” California, Washington, Indiana and Connecticut have similar provisions to keep guns away from high-risk people. Republicans suggested the bill would allow people to randomly curtail Second Amendment rights for many New Yorkers. “Today’s actions infringe upon the rights of law-abiding citizens,” said Senator Pamela Helming, from Central New York. The bill ultimately passed the Senate 42-21, and the Assembly 83-32. A few proposals did earn Republican votes: those that would establish a gun buyback program, and that would prohibit the sale of bump stocks, which enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts. A bill allowing New York regulators to access mental health records for out-of-state gun buyers passed nearly unanimously. The governor acknowledged that strengthening New York’s gun laws could invite legal challenges from gun advocacy groups and activists, given the conservative tilt of the Supreme Court. The high court’s justices recently announced that they would review a New York City gun law, the court’s first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade. Several Republicans accused Democrats of grandstanding by pushing laws that already exist; for example, President Trump imposed a federal ban on bump stocks last year after the mass murder of 58 people in Las Vegas. (The ban is regulatory, however, not statutory, and several groups have announced their intention to challenge it in court.) Mr. Cuomo, a frequent and favorite antagonist of the National Rifle Association, has been accused of politicizing gun control for his own benefit. But he also has a long record of fighting for stricter gun regulations, and he has frequently pointed out that his public support, especially upstate, never fully recovered after passage of the Safe Act. On Tuesday, Democratic leaders in the Legislature also made their antipathy to widespread gun use clear. “I personally don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” the Assembly speaker, Carl E. Heastie, said of the Second Amendment. Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Senate majority leader, promised further action in the coming months. The only other major gun legislation passed since the Safe Act was a law last year to take guns away from domestic abusers. “It will not be six years, believe me, between sensible gun laws,” she said.   ", "id": "5c50cfef3a125f5075c06f7e", "date": "2019-01-29T22:13:01+0000"}]