[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand Confronts an American Export: Mass Shootings", "full_text": " news analysis The country’s leaders want a solution, not just the problem, to become a global phenomenon. Mr. Cave is the Australia bureau chief for The New York Times. CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — The ad hoc memorial at the police cordon spread out across a wide area. Within a few hours of the terrorist attack that stole the lives of 50 people at two mosques here, there was a mountain of flowers and handwritten messages filled with anguish. “This is your home and you should have been safe here.” “Our love and prayers and sympathy are with you.” “Christchurch, Christchurch, what will we do?” The memorial was the first thing I saw when I arrived outside the first mosque the gunman targeted. Like many others, I snapped a few photos of the memorial and posted one to Instagram. But then immediately, I had a moment of déjà vu. I’d taken a very similar set of pictures in 2016 when I was covering the aftermath of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Fla. The Pulse attack had seemed like such an American nightmare — a mass shooting driven by hate — and now that nightmare had found its way to the other side of the world, to a laid-back country where violence is so rare that there isn’t even any airport security when you fly to regional hubs.  From the vantage point of this city of 375,000, the signature American exports of our age were not freedom and Hollywood fantasy but rather a cocktail of gun culture, white supremacy and Facebook, where the killer live-streamed the attack with a camera that gave it the look of an American video game. And while the causes have spread along with Instagrammable memorials, the question emerging here a week later is whether potential solutions can be globalized too. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is doing what she can to lead the way. She announced a ban on military-style assault rifles and ammunition Thursday. She has hammered social media companies for allowing and amplifying extremism. She even went to a high school this week, which lost two of its students in the attack, and told the children they need to fight prejudice. “Let New Zealand be a place where there is no tolerance for racism,” she said. “That’s something we can all do.” And yet, it’s hard to see how places like New Zealand can ever feel safe without some changes internationally. “We need to understand American laws because they affect us,” one commentator said on Radio New Zealand this week. Indeed the lack of legislative effort by American lawmakers on the issues that helped spawn the Christchurch attack — guns, racism and tech platforms — is no longer just a frustration in the United States. Now it wounds the world. There’s hard work to be done for that to change. The solution is not praying for victims or praising Ms. Ardern on Twitter. What New Zealanders want is for Americans to learn from others, for globalization to go the other way, even if it means limitations on fundamental U.S. of A. freedoms. On guns, countries like New Zealand have less to confront: Of the 3.9 million New Zealanders of gun-licensing age, 238,000 — just 6 percent — have a firearm license, according to the website GunPolicy.org. In the United States, three in 10 adults say they own a firearm. Tech companies are another challenge. Despite a growing body of research showing that the algorithms of YouTube, Facebook and other social media platforms push people further into violent extremism, getting those companies and their employees to dial back their self-regard and shift their priorities may be as hard as persuading gun owners to give up their AR-15s. And let’s be honest: Those are the easy things to fix compared with racism and white supremacy. Some Muslims in Christchurch are hoping that the unity of the community and New Zealand officials will set a new standard. “If we can use what happened here to say enough is enough, if we can promote what we call in New Zealand ‘aroha,’” said Mustafa Farouk, president of the Federation of Islamic Associations of New Zealand, using the Maori word for love, “maybe the people behind these shootings will change.” But according to others, the changes will need to become more common, below the ranks of public figures. Here in Christchurch, one of the first people I contacted when I arrived was Kumar Yogeeswaran, a senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Canterbury who studies diversity and received his Ph.D. from the University of Massachusetts. We discussed the deep societal problem of not just violent racism but also the casual racism that feeds it. He said many of his nonwhite students in Christchurch have come to him with stories of ethnic slurs hurled at them or colleagues at work mocking their accents. In the aftermath of the attacks, he said some students have heard white New Zealanders express anti-immigrant sentiments, asking why they’re here and why they’ve come. “When an earthquake hits, the whole community grieves together,” Mr. Yogeeswaran said. A mass shooting that killed mostly immigrants — all of them Muslim — has not quite done the same, some New Zealanders said, noting that the unaffected have been quicker to move on while others fear additional violence from extremists across the ideological spectrum. In 2008, I wrote an article about Derek Black, who was then trying to run for local office in Florida as a white supremacist. He later renounced those views, and we were in touch this past week, emailing a bit about how New Zealand and the world could accelerate and expand the shift he made from hate to inclusion. “When Ardern says that the people who were attacked ‘are us,’ that has to become a sentiment that does not sound surprising or untrue to people,” he said. “This is a long process of people, particularly white people, redefining their in-groups and national identity.” Mr. Black thinks the only way to do this is for people not to isolate themselves. The memorials I saw were perhaps a baby step in that direction, our shared emotions made visible in lilies and words that linger. But some people did not stop there. On Thursday, I met Michael Tarren-Sweeney, a professor of child and family psychology, as he was leaving the funeral of Junaid Ismail, one of the victims. Mr. Tarren-Sweeney told me he worked with Mr. Ismail’s sister, and when I shook his hand he had dirt on it from participating in the Muslim tradition of burial, in which mourners toss handfuls of earth into the grave. Just behind him, leaning against a concrete pole at the cemetery’s edge, was Caitlin Phillips. “I’m just paying my respects,” she said. She had an iPhone in her hand. Had she seen news of the funerals on social media? Had she gone to the memorials? “No, I live around the corner,” she said. “I just wanted to come because I’ve lived here 18 years, all my life, and I’ve never seen anything so wrong.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this article misstated the name of New Zealand's public-service radio broadcaster. It is Radio New Zealand, not New Zealand Radio. Damien Cave is the bureau chief in Sydney, Australia. He previously reported from Mexico City, Havana, Beirut and Baghdad. Since joining The Times in 2004, he has also been a deputy National editor, Miami bureau chief and a Metro reporter.  @damiencave ", "id": "5c95010449f0eacbf105e82e", "date": "2019-03-22T15:35:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Twenty Years After Columbine, Mass Shooting Survivors Help Others Heal", "full_text": " PARKER, Colo. — Almost two decades separate the traumatic experiences of Michelle Wheeler and Chad Williams, who both survived mass shootings. But as they shared their stories one evening last July, 20 years seemed to evaporate in the crisp Colorado air. The similarities were too many to count. The same gripping fear. The loss and devastation that followed. The lasting trauma and overwhelming grief. So many funerals and memorial services. Michelle Wheeler, 38, escaped the April 20, 1999, Columbine High School massacre in Littleton, Colorado, when two students killed 12 students and a teacher, thrusting the horror of school shootings into the American consciousness. Chad Williams, 19, was a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, when a former student killed 17 students and staff members, including one of Williams’ best friends, on Feb. 14, 2018. The conversation with Wheeler made him feel less alone, Williams said. \"It felt like my world fell apart last year,” he said. “And just hearing other people's stories and how they came through and bettered themselves after helped make me feel a little bit better about myself.” There have been dozens of mass shootings in the United States since Columbine. (For a graphic on major U.S. mass shootings, see: https://tmsnrt.rs/2IaGL5h) In the United States from 2000 to 2017 there were 250 active-shooter incidents, resulting in 799 deaths and more than 1,400 people wounded, according to the FBI. But the number of people left to deal with the lasting effects of gun violence is far more difficult to track.  The Rebels Project, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization established in 2012, seeks to help survivors and their families learn how to live with the deep-rooted trauma wrought by their experiences.  The group's mission has gained a renewed sense of urgency in the wake of three apparent suicides: the father of a child killed in the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre in Newtown, Connecticut, and two teenagers from Marjory Stoneman Douglas who died in March. Williams and Wheeler met over the summer during the group’s annual gathering. For one weekend a year, survivors from across the United States meet to learn techniques that help them cope with trauma. About 50 people gathered in July to share and learn from each other's experiences and take part in activities that include tai chi and yoga classes. Between these gatherings, participants can connect through the project's private Facebook group and attend monthly support meetings in Colorado. Project volunteers sometimes visit affected communities to share what they have learned through the years and offer peer-to-peer guidance. Columbine survivor Heather Martin, 37, started The Rebels Project just days after another mass shooting shook her Colorado community. Martin was driving home from work on July 20, 2012, when screaming sirens sent her heart and mind racing. \"It's OK,\" she reasoned with herself. \"Things are OK. Just drive home. There was probably an accident.\" The next morning, she woke to the news that a gunman had killed a dozen people inside a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado.  Though Martin tried to avoid learning the details of the massacre, she became overwhelmed by old feelings of grief, anxiety and, above all, helplessness. A few days later, she received a text from a fellow Columbine survivor. \"What do you think about starting a support group for people who have been through mass shootings?\" Jennifer Hammer wrote. Martin did not hesitate. \"I’m in,\" she replied. The Rebels Project, named after the Columbine High School mascot, held its first meeting within days. Dozens of people showed up wanting to help those affected by the Aurora shooting. Many were Columbine survivors. During the meeting, several broke down crying as they told their own stories. \"It became clear that even 13 years after Columbine we still needed help,\" Martin said. Five years ago, there were fewer than 20 survivor communities involved in the organization. As of early April, survivors of 60 mass traumas had joined. To support its growing network, The Rebels Project hosts a public silent auction of donated items and services once a year and has received small grants from local businesses. But the money quickly runs out. Organizers hope to broaden the project's reach and bolster its impact by starting local support systems in various U.S. states and creating a network of mental-health professionals who specialize in mass trauma. But it has proven especially difficult for the group to get state, federal and nonprofit health grants, Martin said. It has been challenging to prove that peer support unsupervised by a mental health professional falls under mental health needs, \"though there is lots of research surrounding it,\" she said. About 1,000 survivors have found their way to The Rebels Project. It was a 3 a.m. Google search that led Sherrie Lawson to the group. Lawson, 45, fled her office as a gunman opened fire at the Washington Navy Yard in the nation's capital on Sept. 16, 2013. For months after, she was dogged by nightmares and insomnia, and struggled to find support. \"Even a lot of my friends were like, 'It’s been a few months, you should be OK now.'\" But she was not. She struggled to carry out basic chores like going to the grocery store. She grew anxious in the aisles, unable to see the door over the tall rows of food. The Rebels Project taught her that it was normal to continue to struggle for months, even years, after what she had gone through. People affected by events like mass shootings can experience trauma, even if they did not witness the violence firsthand, according to Erika Felix, an associate professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, who has studied shooting survivors. “People need to recognize that there’s multiple levels of people affected. It’s not just the people who directly saw something or were directly injured or lost someone that they loved,” Felix said. “It ripples through a community, it shatters a lot of people’s belief about the safety of your community, of the world.” In early April, nearly 20 years to the day of the Columbine massacre, Martin and two other members from The Rebels Project sat in a park in Parkland with high school students from Stoneman Douglas. Martin told Ava Steil, 16, and Brianna Jesionowski, 16, that every April she finds herself becoming irritable, weepy, short-tempered. The process of healing is “never really over,” Martin told the girls, who were interviewing The Rebels Project members for the high school newspaper. \"I was barricaded in a room for three hours, and it was geographically close to the library where most of the gunfire happened,\" Martin recalled.  \"We heard everything that happened, but I didn’t see any of it happen. So, for years, I was like ... ‘I should be fine.’ And that’s not the case,” she said.  \"Trauma isn’t a competition. You don’t need to compare it to anyone else's. It's your own.” (For a related photo essay, see: https://reut.rs/2Dd4yxk)  (Reporting by Leah Millis, Editing by Maria Caspani and Jonathan Oatis)", "id": "5cb75ba349f0eacbf1f84fd6", "date": "2019-04-17T16:58:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Pulitzers Honor Coverage of 3 US Mass Shootings in 2018", "full_text": " NEW YORK — The South Florida Sun Sentinel and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette won Pulitzer Prizes on Monday and were recognized along with the Capital Gazette of Maryland for their coverage of the horrifying mass shootings in 2018 at a high school, a synagogue and a newsroom itself. The Associated Press won in the international reporting category for documenting the humanitarian horrors of Yemen's civil war, while The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal were honored for delving into President Donald Trump's finances and breaking open the hush-money scandals involving two women who said they had affairs with him. The Florida paper received the Pulitzer in public service for its coverage of the massacre of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland and for detailing the shortcomings in school discipline and security that contributed to the carnage. The Post-Gazette was honored in the breaking news category for its reporting on the synagogue rampage that left 11 people dead. The man awaiting trial in the attack railed against Jews before, during and after the massacre, authorities said. After the Pulitzer announcement, the newsroom in Pittsburgh observed a moment of silence for the victims. At the Sun Sentinel, too, the staff took in the award in a sober spirit. \"We're mindful of what it is that we won for,\" Editor-in-Chief Julie Anderson said. \"There are still families grieving, so it's not joy, it's almost ... I don't know how to describe it. We're emotional, as well.\" So, too, at the Capital Gazette, which was given a special citation for its coverage and courage in the face of a massacre in its own newsroom. The Pulitzer board also gave the paper an extraordinary $100,000 grant to further its journalism. \"Clearly, there were a lot of mixed feelings,\" editor Rick Hutzell said. \"No one wants to win an award for something that kills five of your friends.\" The Annapolis-based newspaper published on schedule, with some help from The Baltimore Sun, the day after five staffers were shot and killed in one of the deadliest attacks on journalists in U.S. history. The man charged had a longstanding grudge against the paper. The Pulitzers, U.S. journalism's highest honor, reflected a year when journalism also came under attack in other ways. Reuters won an international reporting award for work that cost two of its staffers their liberty: coverage of a brutal crackdown on Rohingya Muslims by security forces in Myanmar. Reporters Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo are serving a seven-year sentence after being convicted of violating the country's Official Secrets Act. Their supporters say the two were arrested in retaliation for their reporting. Reuters also won the breaking news photography award for images of Central American migrants heading to the U.S. The AP's international reporting prize went to a team of journalists who documented atrocities and suffering in Yemen, illuminating the human toll of its 4-year-old civil war. As a result of the work by reporter Maggie Michael, photographer Nariman El-Mofty and video journalist Maad al-Zikry, at least 80 prisoners were released from secret detention sites, and the United Nations rushed food and medicine to areas where the AP revealed that people were starving while corrupt officials diverted international food aid. \"This is a story that everybody was not really paying good attention, and we're very happy to be able to draw some attention to it,\" Michael said. Images of the famine in Yemen also brought a feature photography award for The Washington Post. The Post's book critic, Carlos Lozada, won the criticism prize for what the judges called \"trenchant and searching\" work. In the U.S., journalists have been contending with attacks on the media's integrity from the president on down. Trump has branded coverage of his administration \"fake news\" and assailed the media as the \"enemy of the people.\" Monday's wins by the Times and The Wall Street Journal and freelance cartoonist Darrin Bell may further anger the president. The Times won the explanatory reporting Pulitzer for laying out how a president who has portrayed himself as a largely self-made man has, in fact, received over $400 million in family money and helped his family avoid hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Trump has called the Times expose a false \"hit piece.\" The Journal took the national reporting award for its investigations of payments orchestrated by the president's former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, to buy the silence of porn star Stormy Daniels and a Playboy centerfold. Trump has denied having affairs with them. Bell, the editorial cartooning winner, called out \"lies, hypocrisy and fraud in the political turmoil surrounding the Trump administration,\" the Pulitzer judges said. The Los Angeles Times took the investigative reporting prize for stories that revealed hundreds of sexual abuse accusations against a recently retired University of Southern California gynecologist, who has denied the allegations. The university recently agreed to a $215 million settlement with the alleged victims. The local reporting prize went to The Advocate of Louisiana for work that led to a state constitutional amendment abolishing Louisiana's unusual practice of allowing non-unanimous jury verdicts in felony trials. ProPublica won the feature reporting award for coverage of Salvadoran immigrants affected by a federal crackdown on the MS-13 gang. Tony Messenger of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch received the commentary award for his series of columns about poor people being thrown back in jail in Missouri because they couldn't afford to pay the costs of a previous stint behind bars. The New York Times' Brent Staples received the editorial writing award. The judges said his writing about the nation's racial history showed \"extraordinary moral clarity.\" The journalism prizes, first awarded in 1917, were established by newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer. Winners of the public service award receive a gold medal. The other awards carry a prize of $15,000 each. ___ Contributing were Associated Press writers Deepti Hajela in New York; Kelli Kennedy in Fort Lauderdale, Florida; Janet McConnaughey in New Orleans; and Michael Kunzelman in Annapolis, Maryland.", "id": "5cb483b849f0eacbf1f842de", "date": "2019-04-15T13:13:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Parkland Victims’ Families Sue, Claiming Negligence in Mass Shooting", "full_text": " FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The families of some of the victims of the mass shooting last year in Parkland, Fla., filed 22 lawsuits on Wednesday accusing the local school district and sheriff’s office of negligence and seeking potentially millions of dollars in damages as compensation. The lawsuits claim that the Broward County Public Schools failed to keep students and staff at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School safe in spite of warning signs that the shooting suspect, Nikolas Cruz, a former student, had threatened violence against the school community. Mr. Cruz, now 20 and corresponding with pen pals while in jail, faces the possibility of the death penalty in the attack, in which 17 people were killed and 17 others wounded on Feb. 14, 2018. “This is a life sentence for me,” Mitchell Dworet, who lost his 17-year-old son, Nicholas, said at an emotional news conference in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., that was called to announce the lawsuits. Mr. Dworet’s younger son, Alexander, was injured in the shooting. Mr. Dworet’s lawyer, Michael Goldfarb, said at least part of any damages eventually received by the Dworet family would go toward a charitable foundation it created in Nicholas’s name. Many frustrated Parkland residents have accused local government of failures before and during the deadly shooting, and those filing the new lawsuits said they hoped the litigation would help hold officials to account. Over the past 14 months, as Parkland students  began a national youth movement against gun violence, some of the victims’ families focused on the school district and the sheriff’s office. They led a successful push to oust the sheriff, Scott Israel, and an unsuccessful attempt to have the schools superintendent, Robert W. Runcie, fired. “To our family, and our son, this lawsuit will bring some accountability,” said Lisa Olson, whose son, William, was shot in both arms. Speaking through tears, she called every day since the shooting “a struggle.” “My son didn’t go to school today,” she said. “He couldn’t. And we have many days like that now.” Lawsuits have become a sad routine following the country’s deadly mass shootings, with victims’ families pursuing a variety of strategies to try to receive compensation, force the adoption of safety measures and hold private and public entities responsible. That includes lawsuits against gun manufacturers, which have been seen as uphill court battles. Recently, families from the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., employed a legal approach previously used against the cigarette industry to pierce the shield that has protected the gun industry in the past, and going after how gun manufacturers marketed an assault rifle. The F.B.I. identified 27 active-shooter incidents in the United States last year, according to a report the bureau published on Wednesday. The episodes, which spanned 16 states, killed 85 people. None was deadlier than the Parkland shooting. The lawsuits filed on Wednesday on behalf of 12 of those killed in the shooting and 10 others who were injured claim that the Broward County Sheriff’s Office failed to try to stop the gunman during the rampage. The sheriff’s office declined to comment, citing the pending litigation. Scot Peterson, a sheriff’s deputy at the time and the only armed police officer at the school on the day of the shooting, remained outside the building as the attack took place. Mr. Peterson, who retired in the days after the massacre and has maintained that he was unsure of the gunman’s location, is named as a respondent in the lawsuits along with the sheriff’s office, the school district and an unarmed campus security monitor, Andrew Medina. Mr. Medina saw Mr. Cruz get out of an Uber ride with a large bag and walk into the school, but did not confront him or call for a lockdown, an investigation showed. He lost his job last summer. Henderson Behavioral Health, a local clinic that treated Mr. Cruz, is also named in the lawsuits. Mr. Cruz confessed to the police, and his public defenders said he would plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence. But prosecutors rejected that deal, so Mr. Cruz pleaded not guilty and now awaits trial on charges of murder and attempted murder. No trial date has been set. Records released this week by the Broward County state attorney’s office showed that while in jail, Mr. Cruz has been corresponding with pen pals — a woman in Britain and her brother — telling her that he envisions a life after prison in which he would get married, have children and name the boys Kalashnikov, Makarov and Remington, after the gun manufacturers. At the same time, Mr. Cruz acknowledged that he could die by lethal injection. “Its kind of what I want but I’m unsure of myself so I’m just letting people save me from myself, saving me from something that I can never return from,” he wrote on Oct. 13 in a handwritten letter to the woman, identified as Miley, who created a Facebook group for supporters of Mr. Cruz. “Maybe I should get the death penalty,” he wrote in another letter. “I just want love.” The letters, dating from October and November, include stick figures holding hands and smiley faces with hearts. Mr. Cruz has also written to Miley’s brother, identified as Liam. One issue in the Florida lawsuits is how local governments, their former employees and the clinic may be liable for compensating the shooting victims. A sovereign immunity law protects any single victim from collecting more than $200,000 in damages from the government without approval from the State Legislature. Those claims bills can take years to pass. In an effort to avoid such a lengthy process for the Parkland families, State Senator Lauren Book, a Democrat, filed legislation this year establishing a rare compensation fund that would set aside $160 million in public funds for the 34 victims of the Stoneman Douglas shooting. But the bill, which has yet to get a hearing, appears unlikely to be approved before the annual session is scheduled to end on May 3. “This is a huge, huge, huge undertaking in the amount of time that we had to work on this,” Ms. Book said. “It is not an easy lift.” Lawyers for the families said on Wednesday that they suspected that the school district had hired a lobbying firm, GrayRobinson, to lobby against the compensation fund. But both Ms. Book and the district said the accusation was not true; the district said it retained the firm for exactly the opposite purpose: to lobby for the fund’s creation. “At no time has the District or GrayRobinson lobbied against the compensation fund,” Kathy Koch, a spokeswoman for the district, said in a statement. The state continues to investigate the shooting. At the same time that the families announced their lawsuits on Wednesday, a commission that has already identified a range of failures on the part of local officials met to review additional issues, including whether public schools in general underreport criminal and safety incidents, and the manner in which victims’ families in Parkland were told by the authorities that their loved ones had died.    ", "id": "5cae19e249f0eacbf1f825fc", "date": "2019-04-10T16:27:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Honoring the ‘Quieter Characters’ in a Tale of Mass Shootings’ Double Survivors", "full_text": " Times Insider After the story was published, I began reflecting on the two young men I’d left out of it.  Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Still in their early 20s, these three young men have been through what anyone would view as a life-changing nightmare — twice. First came Las Vegas, in October 2017, when they pulled friends and strangers to safety, running along the Strip as bullets hailed from above. Then this November in Thousand Oaks, just miles from their childhood homes, a gunman killed 12 people at their favorite bar, the one they had gone to for comfort when they were recovering from Vegas. Within a few hours, it became clear that many of the people who were there at the bar that night had just become members of a uniquely American group: survivors of two mass shootings. The day after, I spent hours trying to talk with these people I came to think of as double survivors. Understandably, they were in complete shock, unable to express much more than utterly stunned grief. One of their friends who had made it out with them in Las Vegas had not made it out of Borderline Bar & Grill, nestled into a small office park in Thousand Oaks. In the days and weeks after the shooting, I thought often about them, eager to understand how they were attempting to make sense of something that seems so hard to fathom. I wanted to know what their friendships were like, how they were supporting each other. When I learned that they had been gathering with each other every night since then, I knew there was a deeper story to understand and tell.  When I reached out to them again, they were more than willing to talk. They had avoided reporters after Las Vegas but were frustrated that the Thousand Oaks shootings had fallen out of the spotlight so quickly, subsumed by the news of wildfires there — and the ever-quickening news cycle after mass shootings. Our article focused on 22-year-old Brendan Kelly, who is just days away from shipping off to Afghanistan for his first tour of duty as a Marine. But I also spent time with David Anderson, then 23, and Dylan McNey, 22. In listening to the stories of these three friends, I was struck by their different reactions to two of the most violent incidents in the last 12 months. They reminded me that we each experience fear and trauma in distinct ways, processing it on our own timeline and terms. All three have tried to move on, to launch into their adult lives, but they have inevitably been thrust in new directions, ones that are not always predictable and not always bad. Mr. Kelly is almost defiant, embracing another set of risks as a Marine.  As mass shootings have become more common, so have the stories in their aftermath — and their similarities can lead the public to tune out. Mr. Kelly’s defiance made him uniquely compelling, in this uniquely American moment: surviving a massacre here to go fight on a battlefield where the country has been engaged nearly his entire life.  But after the story was published, I began reflecting on the two young men I’d left out of it. It is often the quieter characters I meet in the course of my reporting who stay with me and keep me thinking late into the night. So much of life is in the gray areas, in how we go on with mundane daily tasks after a life-altering event. That’s why I found Mr. Kelly’s two friends so compelling.  Mr. Anderson sees fear as something to manage: Next week he will begin a course to become a firefighter, a nearly lifelong dream. And Mr. McNey, in some ways, avoids fear: After Las Vegas, he dropped out of the community college that had recruited him as a member of the track team and is now working as a carpenter.  When I asked Mr. McNey when he had begun to feel as though his life was back to normal after the 2017 shooting, he answered quickly, as though he had already given it a lot of thought: “About a month before the shooting at Borderline,” he said. He calls his work now his first “real adult” job, one that he hopes will turn into a career. For the last several weeks, the three have spent countless nights together — at memorials for the friends who were killed, at local bars where they are sometimes greeted as hometown heroes, at each others’ homes. Sometimes they speak in explicit terms about the gruesomeness they have seen. But not always. More often, they are simply showing up, embracing each other with a kind of silent grief. At the same time, they all seemed to welcome long, detailed conversations with me, both to explain and to speculate about how these events have reshaped them. More than once, I smiled as they spoke about the same challenges any 20-something has with dating, their relationship complications compounded as they navigate their grief. I hope to stay in touch with them as they continue to build their adult lives, with all the trials that entails.  None of what they have experienced has altered their worldview — they are still deeply skeptical of arguments for stricter gun controls; if anything, they say, more “good guys” should be allowed to carry firearms in California.  They have each nurtured close relationships with their family, though they don’t always speak to them about exactly how they’re feeling. When I asked Mr. Anderson’s mother how he had changed in the last year, she also did not hesitate: “His eyes,” she said. He gets a far-off look sometimes, as though he is thinking about something she could never understand. And that, she understands, is true. Keep up with Times Insider stories on Twitter, via the Reader Center: @ReaderCenter. Jennifer Medina is a national correspondent based in Los Angeles. Since joining The Times in 2002, she has also covered politics in New York and Connecticut and spent several years writing about New York City public schools.  @jennymedina • Facebook ", "id": "5c2f91243a125f5075c02de6", "date": "2019-01-04T17:00:19+0000"}]