[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Real Joe Biden Decision", "full_text": " It’s not whether to run, but whether to run against the emerging consensus of his party.  Opinion Columnist At some point soon, Joe Biden is going to have to make two decisions. The first is whether he wants to run for the Democratic nomination. The second is whether he wants to win it, and at what cost. Right now, even after some slippage, Biden has the highest polling numbers of any candidate in the race. He also has a record that’s completely out of step with his party’s activists and ideologists, a highly … familiar personal style that promises further accusations like the ones already leveled by Lucy Flores and Amy Lappos, and a base of support that’s roughly as old as he is. The combination makes it easy to imagine Biden running a campaign that ends up feeling like an apology tour, in which he talks endlessly about how much he has learned and grown since the days when he was a tough-on-crime Democrat who opposed school busing and sometimes voted for late-term abortion limits. Some of the ideas apparently bandied about by his aides — a one-term pledge! Stacey Abrams as a running mate! — fit with this strategy, in which the goal would be to establish Biden as a temporary bridge to a woker future, a candidate ready to put his moderate past behind him and serve the new liberal consensus. That kind of Biden campaign would probably lose. Indeed, it would probably lose — I know this is harsh — as badly as Jeb Bush did. Why? Because in a big primary field, with a lot of flavors available to voters, it’s very hard to hold your base if you aren’t giving that base a clear reason to vote for you. And the only reason anyone would affirmatively want to vote for Biden is the same reason so many liberals now despise the very idea of his candidacy: because he has that moderate record, because he’s closer to the political center than many of his critics, because he’s out of step with what Matt Yglesias of Vox recently called “the Great Awokening” — the sudden leftward turn on issues of race and immigration and identity. The key point here is that while the Great Awokening has transformed the Democratic Party, it hasn’t entirely eliminated the constituency for a Bill Clintonian form of moderation. The party has embraced left-wing ideas about structural racism, but there are still lots of Democratic voters — minority voters included, as white liberals have outpaced blacks and Hispanics in their wokeness — who would endorse the rhetoric of personal responsibility and colorblindness that the party’s activists now disdain as “respectability politics.” The party is more zealously pro-choice than ever, but there are still Democrats who identify as pro-life; the party is vigorously pro-#MeToo, but there are still Democrats (the Al Franken constituency and others) who worry that the movement has gone too far. And that’s just social issues: You can find similar constituencies who aren’t yet sold on the full social-democratic agenda, who still find the old Clinton-era mix of middle-class tax cuts and targeted spending more appealing than the Bernie Sanders turn. These groups — a mix of older white Democrats, culturally moderate African-Americans and Hispanics, and anti-Trump suburbanites — probably don’t amount to a primary-season majority. But they might add up to a large plurality in a divided field, which could easily be enough to win the nomination. (It’s how Sanders will win it, if he does — with a very different plurality, of course — and it’s how Trump won the Republican nomination in 2016.) To unite this plurality, though, Biden would have to actually appeal to them openly and directly, which would require taking ownership of his record: not defending everything, not avoiding all apologies, but arguing explicitly that some tough-on-crime policies were a necessary response to a destructive multi-decade crime wave, that some moderation on abortion should be acceptable in the Democratic Party and that the Ocasio-Cortezan turn on economic policy should be questioned or resisted. And, yes, defending his personal familiarity, hugs and nose-rubs and hair-kisses and all, and in the process questioning some aspects of #MeToo. Absent that argument, in a primary where Biden is just an old white dude running away from his record, the party’s various moderate voters will almost certainly fracture and go to fresher candidates with cleaner pitches — to the Texan Jesus or the South Bend Meritocrat or the Mean Minnesotan or the Racial Optimist. (That would be Beto O’Rourke, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar and Cory Booker, respectively — none of whom are likely to challenge the Great Awokening directly, but all of whom offer something to Democratic voters wary of the left.) However: To run the way I’m suggesting, on his record rather than against it, would exact a possibly extraordinary cost. Just to campaign this way would make Biden hated by many liberals in a way that would make today’s Twitter animosity look mild. To win the nomination this way would produce fury on a scale that far eclipsed the pro-Sanders anger in 2016 and guarantee a strong 2020 showing for Jill Stein’s grifter left (if not a more sincere alternative). And to lose the nomination this way — which would remain, obviously, a strong possibility — would ensure that Biden exited the stage of liberal politics not as an elder statesman but as a wrong-side-of-history bad guy. Naturally I’d still like Biden to try it — not least because some of the party’s Reagan and Clinton-era compromises were Actually Good, and it would be good for today’s Democrats if a prominent Democrat defended them.  But even as a biased outsider to Democratic politics, I can see why Biden would shrink from the strategy, shrink from dividing his party by challenging its new consensus, shrink from being hated by his co-partisans. If so, though, I hope he has the wisdom not to run at all. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”\r\nYou can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT ", "id": "5ca332ff49f0eacbf1f8014e", "date": "2019-04-02T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Joe Biden Media Frenzy", "full_text": " Once again, journalists are giving in to their own worst instincts. Mr. Greenberg is a professor of history and of journalism and media studies at Rutgers. In May 1987, Senator Gary Hart of Colorado was drummed out of the Democratic presidential contest following reports alleging an affair with Donna Rice, a 29-year-old woman who was not his wife. Months later, Douglas Ginsburg, a federal judge whom President Ronald Reagan had nominated for the Supreme Court, admitted that he had smoked marijuana years before, including as a young law professor, scuttling his candidacy. The next summer, the Republican presidential nominee, George Bush, chose the little-known Indiana Senator Dan Quayle as his running mate, leading to a frantic investigation into how Mr. Quayle had gotten into the Indiana National Guard instead of serving in the Vietnam War. (Rumors, never proven, also swirled about affairs and pot use.) Mr. Quayle stayed on the ticket, but never quite recovered. The late 1980s and 1990s marked a high-water mark for a kind of giddy journalistic derangement over politicians’ adultery, drug use and draft avoidance — a somewhat arbitrary trio of offenses inflated into mortal sins. Candidates and nominees for various public positions were barraged with questions on these issues, although no one ever showed that they bore on a person’s fitness for office. These orgies of saturation press coverage, feverish speculation and moral righteousness were dubbed feeding frenzies. In time, the manias subsided. Bill Clinton was elected president as an admitted philanderer. Barack Obama confessed to having used “a little blow” in his youth and no one cared. Not one of our baby-boomer presidents served in Vietnam — a fact that troubles few people today. So are we now able to evaluate aspirants for high office dispassionately, on the basis of their experience, achievements and qualifications? It sure isn’t looking that way. More likely, we have just dropped one bucket of shark bait and picked up another. We are now witnessing a feeding frenzy over Joe Biden’s penchant for sometimes-unwelcome public displays of affection. Mr. Biden, who is famous for overly tactile friendliness, has been dealing with two women’s charges that he upset them by greeting them far too intimately. Pundits are now discussing whether these actions should end Mr. Biden’s (as yet unannounced) presidential candidacy and even declaring point blank that he is the wrong man to succeed President Trump. Charges about inappropriate touching must be heard and evaluated. But the more difficult question for journalists is whether these charges should become grounds for feeding frenzies — all-consuming, multi-day stories that, by virtue of their blanket coverage, signal to audiences that they outweigh everything else about a candidate.  Front-page stories, 24/7 coverage and viral tweets can easily knock someone out of contention. Should they? How the press handles Mr. Biden’s penchant for handling others will test whether it has learned from its mistakes in the days of Hart and Ginsburg and Quayle. A historical lens may help us see things with a bit more dispassion. The media obsession with a specific set of gotcha issues, the conviction that they warrant an expenditure of vast journalistic resources, dates to the years after the Vietnam War and Watergate. Chastened by those national traumas, Americans, including journalists, concluded that they had sprung from the debauched or deformed characters of President Johnson and especially President Nixon. “Character” became the watchword in politics. But character was defined at once too vaguely and too narrowly. The imperative to evaluate character was too broad in that it gave journalists license to vet aspirants for the presidency (as well as for the Supreme Court, Cabinet appointments and other offices) by prying into their personal lives. Yet it was also too narrow, because the peculiar foibles that the press fixated on were hardly sufficient to adequately judge someone’s integrity or maturity or temperament. The issues of sex, drugs, and Vietnam loomed large for reporters of the Baby Boom generation because they provided an arena in which to work through unresolved feelings about the cultural transformations of the 1960s. Eventually, the maturation of Generation X — whose members were largely unfazed by tales of sex, pot and draft dodging — diminished the potential of the boomers’ pet issues to blossom into scandal. More broadly, the public was wearying of hyped-up controversies that, it was becoming clear, had little or no relevance to how a politician performed his or her job. Recently, though, America experienced another trauma. The election of Donald Trump — a rank misogynist and confessed sexual assaulter — over a woman seemingly destined to be America’s first female president jolted many voters. Among its other effects, Trump’s election helped spark the explosion of women’s activism we have seen since 2016, including the long-overdue insistence that we call sexual harassers and assaulters to account. If Mr. Trump couldn’t be stopped, others guilty of like offenses would be policed with new vigor. As many people recognize, however, for all the big shots, predators and cads rightly brought to justice, there have also been moments of excess — of sober judgment suspended. Most infamously, in late 2017, following multiple claims of inappropriate touching, the Senate peremptorily cast out Minnesota’s Al Franken, before an ethics investigation could even occur. Mr. Franken denied that his actions amounted to sexual harassment, and apologized for them anyway. But when two new stories were posted to the internet in early December, his senate colleague Kirsten Gillibrand led a parade of lawmakers who demanded he give up his seat. Like Gary Hart, Mr. Franken cannot blame others entirely, since he chose to step down. But a lot of Americans had and still have grave qualms about the lack of due process he was afforded. Clearly, both the media and the political class bore some responsibility for ratcheting up the pressure on him, instead of calling — as they could have — for cool deliberation to determine what actually happened, how severe his offenses were, and whether they should overshadow the many reasons his constituents might wish him to keep serving (as polls suggested they did). It is possible to cover stories such as these without creating feeding frenzies. Journalists can run fewer stories on a subject, talk about it once a day on cable news and not every hour, assume a matter-of-fact tone, remind themselves that Twitter isn’t public opinion, question scandal material shopped by someone’s political rivals, and in other ways bear in mind that many people deplore the media proclivity for these furors.  When scandals relating to personal behavior arise, they can also ask themselves whether those behaviors reflect at all on how the politician might deal with Vladimir Putin, restore democracy to Venezuela, solve an immigration crisis or economic meltdown, or develop a plan for addressing health-care costs or planetary dangers. And thoughtful coverage can illuminate the immense differences between, for example, Mr. Biden’s occasionally cringe-worthy physicality and Mr. Trump’s contempt-filled view of women as veritable pieces of meat. Without such a tempered media environment, though, it is easy to imagine Mr. Biden or other candidates succumbing to media pressure as Mr. Franken did, without any careful weighing of the nature, severity and relevance of the alleged wrongdoing. Nonetheless, in our scandal-soaked past there have also been politicians who withstood a media battering only to find their courage rewarded with the news that the public supported them all along — and that the headlines and headline news did not reflect popular opinion. In 1989, for example, after disclosures that Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank had hired a male prostitute and kept the man on his payroll, many politicians, along with the Boston Globe, called on the congressman to resign. Mr. Frank resisted the pressure, submitted himself to the judgment of his constituents, and was reelected twelve more times. Bill Clinton, too, stoutly rejected the pundits’ calls during the Monica Lewinsky scandal that he abdicate, and he withstood impeachment by a Republican-controlled House of Representatives. His approval ratings soared as the drama dragged on, showing again that voters don’t always agree when a media mob calls for a politician’s head. More recently, Governor Ralph Northam of Virginia was found to have displayed a photo in his medical-school yearbook of a student in blackface beside another one in Klan robes. Despite a cascade of calls for his resignation, he instead vowed to redouble his commitment to racial justice — and, a short while later, it turned out that most African-Americans in the state wanted him to stay put. These politicians at some level appreciated that a feeding frenzy is typically not a mirror but a distortion of public opinion. Consciously or intuitively, most of us know that public morality is distinct from private morality — that a great president or Supreme Court justice can be a flawed or rotten person, and a noble soul might be a lousy senator or governor. (Of course, we can all think of a horrible human being who also made a terrible president.) We need to remember that when we grill candidates about the taboo du jour, we aren’t helping ourselves understand their suitability for leadership but rather working through other cultural concerns. As for character, the real test of it may be whether a politician has the fortitude and self-confidence to brave the media storm. David Greenberg is a professor of history and of journalism and media studies at Rutgers University and the author of “Republic of Spin: An Inside History of the American Presidency.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca4847f49f0eacbf1f807e9", "date": "2019-04-03T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Is of an Older Generation. Does It Matter?", "full_text": " Times readers debate how the former vice president has interacted with women. Compiled by Lisa Lerer and Lela Moore This week, hundreds of Times readers shared their reactions to the unfolding accusations against Joseph R. Biden Jr. by women who said he had kissed or touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable. Many readers defended the former vice president as a product of a different time and questioned if the #MeToo movement had gone too far. Others insisted that making a woman feel uncomfortable has always been wrong. Since Lucy Flores, a former Nevada state assemblywoman, made public her accusations against Mr. Biden last Friday, multiple women have come forward, telling The Times, The Washington Post and others that he made them feel uncomfortable, bringing the total to seven as of Thursday afternoon.  Mr. Biden, who is expected to announce whether he will enter the race for president in April, released a video on Wednesday vowing to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space,” though he stopped short of apologizing. Here is a selection of our readers’ responses, which came from comments across our site and emails to our On Politics newsletter. They have been lightly edited for clarity. I am 68, a bit younger than Joe Biden. But I am from a big Irish family and we are always kissing and hugging people. It was an expression of welcome and warmth. Now I understand in this MeToo movement that there are those who are uncomfortable with such intimate physical expressions. So now that Joe has been called out on it, it is up to him to show his changed behavior if indeed he runs for president, which I hope he does. — Sally Ziegenfuss, Pennsylvania I’m a 70-year-old woman who has always thought that male attention that might involve non-intimate touching was something to be pleased about, even proud of. This is definitely a generational issue and younger women need to have perspective and understand that what was very acceptable in the past, even a couple of years ago, should not and cannot be judged by today’s standards. — Ellen Goodman, Massachusetts Back in the ’60s this issue didn’t exist. It was a different time. When will we stop looking back over our collective shoulders, and move forward? — Whitney Devlin, 74, New York [How do you view Joe Biden’s past behavior? Share your thoughts in the comments.] I am in my 60s. Regardless of age or habitat, Joe Biden’s touchy feely actions with women (and men, allegedly) are disgusting and inappropriate. I don’t believe they arise out of innocent affection, though he may have himself convinced. They arise out of unconscious male privilege and are demeaning and distressing to those on the receiving end. — Joan Weis, California Men of his generation assumed that the “affection” being given would be welcomed and appreciated, particularly since it was being given by a man in power. The problem has been that nobody bothered to ask the women or girls. — Lori Abbott Moreland, Sacramento, Calif. This is not a generational misunderstanding. Biden’s licentious behavior (let’s call it what it is) was never the norm and not what most women wanted or expected. — Dwight Dekeyser, 63, Cherry Hill, N.J. Joe Biden is facing a moment of “white man privilege.” Just because HE didn’t think that gently rubbing shoulders and kissing the back of her head wasn’t inappropriate doesn’t mean this incident can be dismissed as paternal or innocent. It is the woman’s feelings about the kiss/touch that matter. He lives in a different era and is no longer relevant to most generations. He needs to step aside. — Sandra Mathews, 51, Madison, N.J. [On Politics is an email newsletter making sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics. Sign up here.] Is this where we’re heading, to ban “jokes, hugs and kisses” from the public sphere? Early on we baby boomers rejected the stiff formalities of an earlier generation for an easy physicality, an appreciative give-and-take across gender lines that graced daily life with moments of lightness and warmth. Do we really want to push the Joe Bidens and Al Frankens from our lives? Maybe it’s generational, but I fear we’re losing something I’ve long cherished. #MeTooMuch. — Millie Olson, California As a college student warned constantly about the dangers of life on campus, I worry that the legacy of the #MeToo movement will not be empowerment for women, but a generation of women terrified of interaction with males, who see any physical intimacy as a threat. When men kiss me on the head or squeeze my shoulders, it does make me uncomfortable. But does it make me uncomfortable because it is creepy or because I have been told I should find it creepy? I hope the pendulum will soon swing back to a more reasonable and thoughtful, less knee-jerk political and cultural climate. — Meg Edwards, Ohio This story personifies exactly what is wrong with the #MeToo movement. It started off as a positive force, bringing to light predatory behavior, and now we’ve gotten to the point where a squeeze or a nuzzle is horrific. This is exactly why the Democrats (who I am one of) will lose the 2020 election. We are eating our own, and to what end? — Monica Evenson, 47, Los Angeles A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work. Lisa Lerer is a reporter based in Washington, covering campaigns, elections and political power. Before joining The Times she reported on national politics and the 2016 presidential race for The Associated Press.  @llerer  Lela Moore is an audience writer for the Reader Center. She covers reader reaction to breaking news and popular articles on topics ranging from politics to business to sports. She also moderates the New York Times Reader Center Group on Facebook.  @runlelarun • Facebook ", "id": "5ca67a6549f0eacbf1f80ff3", "date": "2019-04-04T21:41:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Critics to Joe Biden: You’re Missing the Point", "full_text": " Joe Biden says he will be “more mindful” of personal space because of changing “social norms.” But some of his accusers say it’s not norms that have changed, it’s the conversation. You’re reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com. “He stopped treating me like a peer the moment he touched me.” — Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman who said Joseph R. Biden Jr. inappropriately touched and kissed her in 2014 On Wednesday, in a video he posted on Twitter, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. acknowledged claims that he had made some women uncomfortable over the years by touching them in ways that were too familiar — like pulling them in close or extended hugging.  He didn’t apologize, but instead said that his inclination to lavish affection on women and girls might not be appropriate in this day and age. He vowed to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space.” “Social norms have begun to change,” Biden, 76, said in the video, which was prompted by the women who have come forward in the past week with stories about his unwanted touching — starting with Lucy Flores, the former Nevada assemblywoman who wrote an essay about her 2014 encounter with him. “They’ve shifted,” Biden said, “and the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset and I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying.” [READ MORE: Biden’s Tactile Politics Threaten His Return in the #MeToo Era] But some of the women who have spoken out told The Washington Post that he had missed a crucial point: Yes, times have changed, they said, but not because women have grown more sensitive to violations of their personal space, but because they are more emboldened to speak out.  Sofie Karasek, who appeared on stage with Lady Gaga at the 2016 Oscars alongside dozens of other sexual assault victims, said it took her some time to realize how uncomfortable she had been made to feel by the former vice president, whom she’d met after the ceremony (Biden had introduced the performance).  He had clasped Karasek’s hands and placed his forehead against hers, a moment captured in a widely shared photograph — a copy of which she kept framed in her home for a while. She took it down as #MeToo began gaining ground.  In the video, Biden “still didn’t take ownership in the way that he needs to,” Karasek told The Post. “Too often it doesn’t matter how the woman feels about it or they just assume that they’re fine with it.”  Vail Kohnert-Yount, a White House intern in 2013 who said Biden once pressed his forehead into hers and called her a “pretty girl” when she had expected a handshake, said that she didn’t consider her experience “sexual assault or harassment,” but that “it was the kind of inappropriate behavior that makes many women feel uncomfortable and unequal in the workplace.” Of the video, she said: “To me this is not mainly about whether Joe Biden has adequate respect for personal space. It’s about women deserving equal respect in the workplace.” [READ MORE: How Joe Biden’s Touching Resonated With Readers] Even as these accounts have emerged, plenty of women have come to Biden’s defense, saying that his actions have been misconstrued.  Erin Bilbray, a former Democratic congressional candidate from Nevada, said that Biden had hugged and kissed her on the head during a meet-and-greet in 2014. “It was a very nurturing, supportive action,” Bilbray said on Facebook. “It was not anything other than that.” Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said Biden is “a very affectionate individual who is a natural toucher.” And Meghan McCain called him “one of the truly decent and compassionate men in all of American politics.” Whether Biden’s prospects will be affected (he is expected to announce soon whether he will seek the presidency) remains uncertain, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi said this week that she didn’t think the allegations were “disqualifying,” suggesting that the discord is somewhat rooted in generational differences.  “He has to understand in the world that we’re in now that people’s space is important to them,” Pelosi, 79, said. “What’s important is how they receive it and not necessarily how you intended it.” Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox! ______ Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed. “I know that fear.” The House turned back a furious lobbying campaign by the N.R.A. and voted to expand gun controls on domestic abusers in a revamped Violence Against Women Act. [Read the story] “It was different for a woman.” Cristine Pedersen’s father raised her under the Marine Corps’ core values, but when she joined the service, her experience was not at all like her father’s. [Read the story]  “I derive power from my femininity.” A look at 90 years of New York City congresswomen. [Read the story]  “This is a woman who just takes a photo — a selfie of herself and nothing else.” A teacher was fired after a student obtained a topless selfie of her, stirring a debate over gender equity. [Read the story] “Who counts as a woman?” From our Opinion pages, the attempt to exclude transgender women from the ranks of women reinforces the dangerous idea that there is a right way to be female. [Read the story]  ______ As people debate the appropriateness of Joe Biden’s actions — and await his decision on whether to run for president — he has received renewed criticism for his handling of Anita Hill’s testimony during Justice Clarence Thomas’s confirmation hearing in 1991. Biden, then a senator from Delaware, led the Senate Judiciary Committee.  In a front-page New York Times article at the time, Maureen Dowd, then a Washington correspondent, wrote that the hearing “offered a rare look into the mechanics of power and decision-making in Washington, a city where men have always made the rules and the Senate remains an overwhelmingly male club.” In a speech last week, Biden voiced regret over the hearing. Hill “faced a committee that didn’t fully understand what the hell this was all about,” he said. “To this day, I regret I couldn’t give her the kind of hearing she deserved. I wish I could have done something.” Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Read past articles here.", "id": "5ca76e1b49f0eacbf1f812cd", "date": "2019-04-05T15:01:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden in the Modern Age", "full_text": " On Politics With Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] He kissed a senator’s wife on the lips. He joked about the attractiveness of several senators’ teenage daughters and granddaughters. And he told a female senator to “spread her legs” because she was “going to be frisked.”  A #MeToo moment? That’s not how it was seen at the time. No, that was just Joe Biden, hamming it up as he swore in the new senators. In his time as vice president, the ceremony became an annual spectacle in Washington, with his behavior even earning an affectionate nickname: “Bidening.” Those jokes, hugs and kisses may look different now. An essay published Friday night by Lucy Flores, a former Nevada legislator, that accuses Mr. Biden of leaning into her, smelling her hair and kissing her head in a way that made her uncomfortable at a 2014 campaign rally, has thrust the possible presidential candidate into a major generational reckoning. [A second woman came forward Monday and accused Mr. Biden of touching her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable.] Mr. Biden entered the Senate in 1973 — before abortion was legal, before the Watergate hearings, before VCRs, before the Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg was born, and certainly before any serious national conversation about consent. Whether the 76-year-old Mr. Biden can get right with his party’s current mores around race and gender may be the most fraught question hanging over his presidential aspirations. In the #MeToo era, we talk a lot about “open secrets.” But Mr. Biden’s touchy-feely behavior wasn’t a secret at all. It was photographed, televised and widely discussed. And, for years, it was viewed as a political asset. Mr. Biden was a skilled retail politician, according to the conventional wisdom, someone who could work a room, charm a crowd, win them over booth by booth in a New Hampshire diner. This weekend’s accusations could transform that strength into a weakness. In response to Ms. Flores’s account, Mr. Biden said he didn’t believe he had ever acted inappropriately in public life but was willing to “listen respectfully” to those who may feel differently. Ms. Flores flipped the frame, saying Mr. Biden’s perception didn’t matter: How his actions made her feel was more important. “Frankly, my point was never about his intentions, and they shouldn’t be about his intentions,” she said in an interview with CNN. “It should be about the women on the receiving end of that behavior.” Now, the political world finds itself litigating a series of thorny questions. Does intent matter? Are we allowed to think that a back-of-head kiss is “not as bad” as a mouth kiss, even though they are both kind of gross? Can a progressive male politician issue a denial, while still saying he believes women? The debate, which should come as no surprise to Mr. Biden or his team if they’ve been following the news over the past two years, will ultimately be decided by voters, should Mr. Biden jump into the race. Last month, Mr. Biden referred to himself as a “tactile politician” during a speech in Dover, Del., arguing that the skill helped him understand voters. Whether he understands the political moment, though, remains an open question. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] We want to hear from our female readers. What do you think about the way Joe Biden interacts with women? Email us your thoughts at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Include your name and home state, and we may feature your response in Thursday’s newsletter. ____________________ It’s Election Day Eve in Wisconsin! The Supreme Court race on the ballot Tuesday won’t change the conservative majority on the state’s highest court. But it will tell us something about the political mood in a key battleground state that Democrats lost by a little more than 22,000 votes in 2016 and carried two years later. While Supreme Court races are technically nonpartisan affairs, they’ve become heavily politicized events, with millions of dollars pouring in from political groups. In this year’s contest, conservatives back Judge Brian Hagedorn and liberals are behind Judge Lisa Neubauer. The candidates faced off in a bitter debate last month that featured accusations of lying and questions of temperament. A win by Judge Neubauer would leave liberals in a strong position to retake control of the court the next time a seat comes up in 2020, when Democrats typically benefit from the larger turnout of a presidential year. The court could face several big political decisions, including questions around the redistricting that will follow the 2020 census and determine the makeup of congressional districts. Turnout for Supreme Court elections is typically around 20 percent, less than half that of a race for governor. Still, political strategists will be watching to try to extrapolate trends about motivation, enthusiasm, and the energy of Democratic and Republican voters in the state. One area to pay attention to: suburban counties outside Milwaukee that typically vote Republican but have shown some erosion during the Trump era. Want to know more? Milwaukee Magazine explains years of Supreme Court races — through Star Wars. ____________________ • Chicago will vote Tuesday on a runoff election for mayor. It’s destined to make history: No matter which candidate wins, Chicago will become the largest U.S. city ever to elect an African-American woman as its mayor. • How is the Trump era molding the next generation of voters? Surveys reveal teenagers to be anxious about the country and likely to embrace liberal views, even when identifying as Republican. • Hey, governor, what are you wearing? The Times’s chief fashion critic reflects on the news that J.B. Pritzker, the governor of Illinois, gets daily style recommendations. ____________________ “Surrounded by rats, black trash bags and graffiti-tagged storefronts on Broadway Street, New York’s primary thoroughfare, I wondered aloud if I would be able to find a decent meal in what was surely a culinary heart of darkness.” For April Fools’ Day, The Los Angeles Times gives us a taste of our own medicine, with a trip to the exotic city of New York to sample the local delicacies like “pizza” and “bagels.” _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca2914249f0eacbf1f7fed3", "date": "2019-04-01T22:30:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Tweets Doctored Video Mocking Joe Biden", "full_text": " President Trump, despite his own history of buying a porn star’s silence and bragging about sexual misconduct, on Thursday leveled another broadside at Joseph R. Biden Jr., tweeting a meme that mocked the former vice president for putting his hands on women’s shoulders. The 15-second meme, accompanied by the text “WELCOME BACK JOE!,” doctored a video that Mr. Biden released on Wednesday in which the former vice president explained his history of physical contact with women, some of whom say his behavior made them uncomfortable. Mr. Biden has said he tried to comfort people with hugs, kisses and other physical contact when they appeared nervous. In the meme, as Mr. Biden delivers his explanation, a pair of hands appears on his shoulders, and then an image of Mr. Biden’s head pops up and appears to sniff the back of the former vice president’s head. The meme appeared to be a reference to an accusation by a former Nevada assemblywoman, who said in an essay published last Friday that Mr. Biden had touched her shoulders, smelled her hair and kissed the back of her head at a campaign event in 2014. [Joe Biden’s hugs and kisses were well-known in Washington. Now he faces a generational reckoning.] Mr. Biden is widely expected to join the 2020 presidential race soon, and some Democrats view him as perhaps the most formidable challenger to Mr. Trump. But in the last week, accusations from several women that Mr. Biden touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable have threatened to upend his fledgling campaign, and on Wednesday, he addressed the claims directly for the first time in a video posted to his Twitter feed. Mr. Trump’s supporters have seized on the accusations against Mr. Biden, viewing them as an early opening to attack a potential Democratic candidate they already view as perhaps his strongest adversary. On Tuesday, a pro-Trump group, the Great America PAC, released a “Creepy Joe” Biden ad. Mr. Trump himself has also already weighed in on the allegations: Joking on Tuesday night about asking for a kiss, Mr. Trump said, “I felt like Joe Biden.” This is not the first time the president has used a doctored video to taunt an adversary. In July of 2017 he posted a clip on his Twitter account that showed him wrestling with and punching a figure whose head had been replaced by the logo of CNN, the cable news network that he has regularly attacked.    ", "id": "5ca6620449f0eacbf1f80f99", "date": "2019-04-04T19:57:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Wrong Time for Joe Biden", "full_text": " He’s not a sexual predator, but he is out of touch. Opinion Columnist On Friday, Lucy Flores, a former Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor of Nevada, accused Joe Biden of touching her inappropriately as they waited to take the stage at a 2014 election rally. He put his hands on her shoulders, she said, then nuzzled her hair and kissed the back of her head. She didn’t accuse Biden, who is reportedly close to announcing his presidential candidacy, of sexual harassment or assault, just of making her uncomfortable. “I’m not suggesting that Biden broke any laws, but the transgressions that society deems minor (or doesn’t even see as transgressions) often feel considerable to the person on the receiving end,” she wrote. In response, Biden released a statement saying that while he’s often been physically affectionate as a politician, “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately.” Then, on Monday, Amy Lappos, a former aide to the Democratic congressman Jim Himes, told The Hartford Courant  that Biden pulled her toward him to rub noses during a 2009 fund-raiser. “There’s absolutely a line of decency,” Lappos said, adding: “Crossing that line is not grandfatherly. It’s not cultural. It’s not affection. It’s sexism or misogyny.” Biden’s campaign hadn’t yet begun and was already in crisis. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Flores, Lappos and Biden are probably all telling the truth. There are countless photos of Biden behaving in the ways that Flores and Lappos describe: squeezing women, rubbing their shoulders, leaning in too close. All this was open, not furtive, presumably because it never occurred to Biden that he was doing anything untoward. I don’t necessarily blame him. In the past few years, women have been calling out daily indignities that previous generations grew up quietly tolerating: lingering hugs from a boss, embarrassing intimate questions, crude office jokes. Individually, these are small acts, and most men probably don’t understand how cumulatively draining they can be. Women, after all, have only recently begun to articulate it. I received plenty of unwanted shoulder massages when I was younger, and for a long time I assumed there was something wrong with me when they made me flinch. It was affirming to finally realize that other women also hated routine invasions of their personal space. But if it wasn’t always obvious to me that the men were at fault in these awkward encounters, it might not have been obvious to them, either. So I don’t think Biden’s avuncular pawing is a #MeToo story. (Lappos specifically said the way he grabbed her “wasn’t sexual.”) But if Biden was more oblivious than predatory, his history still puts him out of step with the mores of an increasingly progressive Democratic Party. On Sunday, The New York Times reported that some Democrats are bracing “for an extended reckoning about Mr. Biden and gender if he enters the race.” The inevitably of such a reckoning should make Biden reconsider getting in. Biden’s issues with gender, after all, go far beyond chronic handsiness. His waffling on reproductive choice troubles many feminists; as The Times reported last week, Biden’s “back-and-forth over abortion would become a hallmark of his political career.” He was the chairman of the hearings on Clarence Thomas’s Supreme Court nomination, where Anita Hill, who accused Thomas of sexual harassment, was demeaned and dismissed. Though Biden has expressed sorrow for how Hill was treated, he’s never directly apologized to her. Beyond gender, on issue after issue, if Biden runs for president he will have to run away from his own record. He — and by extension, we — will have to relive the debate over the Iraq war, which he voted to authorize. He’ll have to explain his vote to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act, which, by lifting regulations on banking, helped create the conditions for the 2008 financial meltdown. (Biden has called that vote one of the biggest regrets of his career.) In 2016, Hillary Clinton was slammed for her previous support of the 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, which contributed to mass incarceration. Biden helped write the law, which he called, in 2015, the “1994 Biden crime bill.” None of this means that Democrats need to disavow Biden. He is by most accounts a man of great personal decency. As vice president, he pushed Barack Obama’s administration in the right direction on issues including gay marriage and campus sexual assault. It’s not surprising that he leads most polls of 2020 Democrats; he is well known and well loved. Still, the widespread assumption that Biden would pose the strongest challenge to Donald Trump is unwarranted. In recent years, neither party has done well when they’ve chosen candidates who were meant to appeal to some elusive cadre of swing voters but lacked a robust grass-roots base. On paper, the war heroes John Kerry and John McCain looked electable; Obama and Trump did not. To those desperate to unseat Trump, the centrist, establishment Biden might seem like the safest choice, but it would actually be risky to pick a candidate who will need to constantly apologize for himself. Particularly when he doesn’t know how to do that very well. In response to Flores, Biden could have told her that he was sorry for making her uneasy. Instead, he focused on his intentions rather than her experience, a faint echo of the way he’d ignored Hill’s experience decades ago. No one should judge the whole span of Biden’s career by the standards of 2019, but if he’s going to run for president, it’s fair to ask whether he’s the right leader for this moment. He is a product of his time, but that time is up. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.  Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn ", "id": "5ca2ba5449f0eacbf1f7ff5a", "date": "2019-04-02T01:25:13+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Jimmy Fallon Grapples With the Awkwardness of Joe Biden’s Candidacy", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. As former Vice President Joseph Biden contemplates entering the presidential race, the late-night hosts have been working their way through the complex dynamics. On Tuesday, Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers both raised their eyebrows at Biden’s continued advantage in early polls despite the women who have said he made unwanted physical contact with them. “A new poll has Joe Biden leading the Democratic field. It’s a tricky situation: Some people think Biden’s too inappropriate with women to beat the other Democrats, and yet still not inappropriate enough to beat Trump.” — JIMMY FALLON “According to a new poll, former Vice President Joe Biden is favored among Democratic primary voters. That’s right, he’s the hands-down favorite. No, Joe — put your hands down!” — SETH MEYERS Conan O’Brien pointed out that Biden has plenty of competition. On Monday, yet another Democrat joined the race: Representative Eric Swalwell. “There are now 18 Democrats running for president, and more are on the way, they said. Yes, in fact, for this month only, if you announce you’re running for president you can get all-you-can-eat crab legs at Red Lobster.” — CONAN O’BRIEN “You have to admit one thing about Donald Trump: He literally makes everyone think they could be president. It’s an amazing power.” — CONAN O’BRIEN Two days after Kirstjen Nielsen was forced out as secretary of homeland security, touching off a firing spree across her former department, Stephen Colbert mused about who might take those jobs. “It is going to be tough to find people to fill those positions. If only there was a group of folks willing to do jobs Americans don’t want to do.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Colbert said the administration’s lack of success in containing the flow of people across the southern border explained President Trump’s frustration. “There’s been a huge spike in illegal immigration since he took office, and he looks like an idiot. Not sure which one of those things came first.” — STEPHEN COLBERT James Corden played video of a man in California who was shown stealing a chain saw from a hardware store by stuffing it down his pants. “The suspect got away. Police are describing him as medium height, medium build and extremely circumcised.” — JAMES CORDEN “During a recent meeting about immigration with top officials, Trump was ‘ranting and raving, saying border security was his issue.’ Sir, don’t sell yourself short. You have tons of issues: commitment, uh, trust, uh, daddy.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Barr said he plans to release the Mueller report within a week — just as soon as he’s done rolling big swaths of black paint all over it. This report is going to have more blackouts than Brett Kavanaugh in college. It will be heavily redacted.” — JIMMY KIMMEL Jimmy Kimmel took it upon himself to disprove the conspiracy theories claiming that Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has died. In the latest installment of Ya Burnt, Seth Meyers savaged everything from professional massages to the Marie Kondo method. Anderson Cooper will talk to Stephen Colbert on Wednesday. Some comedians in Venezuela are using their platforms to comment on politics — but in a country without a history of free-speech protections, it can be a dangerous move. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5cadb3e149f0eacbf1f8242f", "date": "2019-04-10T09:12:40+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Joe Biden’s Touching Resonated With Readers", "full_text": " On Politics With Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] This week, hundreds of readers shared their reactions to the unfolding accusations against Joe Biden by women who said he had kissed or touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable. Many readers defended the former vice president as a product of a different time and questioned if the #MeToo movement had gone too far. Others insisted that making a woman feel uncomfortable has always been wrong. Since Lucy Flores, a former Nevada state assemblywoman, made public her accusations against Mr. Biden last Friday, multiple women have come forward, telling The Times, The Washington Post and others that he made them feel uncomfortable, bringing the total to seven as of Thursday afternoon. Mr. Biden released a video on Wednesday vowing to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space,” though he stopped short of apologizing. Here is a selection of our readers’ responses, which came from emails sent by On Politics readers, as well as comments across our site. They have been lightly edited for clarity. Many of you defended Mr. Biden, saying he was from an older generation when social mores around physical contact were different. I am 68, a bit younger than Joe Biden. But I am from a big Irish family and we are always kissing and hugging people. It was an expression of welcome and warmth. Now I understand in this MeToo movement that there are those who are uncomfortable with such intimate physical expressions. So now that Joe has been called out on it, it is up to him to show his changed behavior if indeed he runs for president, which I hope he does. — Sally Ziegenfuss, Pennsylvania I’m a 70-year-old woman who has always thought that male attention that might involve non-intimate touching was something to be pleased about, even proud of. This is definitely a generational issue and younger women need to have perspective and understand that what was very acceptable in the past, even a couple of years ago, should not and cannot be judged by today’s standards. — Ellen Goodman, Massachusetts Back in the ‘60s this issue didn’t exist. It was a different time. When will we stop looking back over our collective shoulders, and move forward? — Whitney Devlin, 74, New York  But many others said Mr. Biden’s age was no excuse for his actions. I am in my 60s. Regardless of age or habitat, Joe Biden’s touchy feely actions with women (and men, allegedly) are disgusting and inappropriate. I don’t believe they arise out of innocent affection, though he may have himself convinced. They arise out of unconscious male privilege and are demeaning and distressing to those on the receiving end. — Joan Weis, California Men of his generation assumed that the “affection“ being given would be welcomed and appreciated, particularly since it was being given by a man in power. The problem has been that nobody bothered to ask the women or girls.  — Lori Abbott Moreland, Sacramento, Calif. This is not a generational misunderstanding. Biden’s licentious behavior (let’s call it what it is) was never the norm and not what most women wanted or expected. — Dwight Dekeyser, 63, Cherry Hill, N.J. Joe Biden is facing a moment of “white man privilege.” Just because HE didn’t think that gently rubbing shoulders and kissing the back of her head wasn’t inappropriate doesn’t mean this incident can be dismissed as paternal or innocent. It is the woman’s feelings about the kiss/touch that matter. He lives in a different era and is no longer relevant to most generations. He needs to step aside. — Sandra Mathews, 51, Madison, N.J. Some readers said they worried the #MeToo movement risked going off course. Is this where we’re heading, to ban “jokes, hugs and kisses” from the public sphere? Early on we baby boomers rejected the stiff formalities of an earlier generation for an easy physicality, an appreciative give-and-take across gender lines that graced daily life with moments of lightness and warmth. Do we really want to push the Joe Bidens and Al Frankens from our lives? Maybe it’s generational, but I fear we’re losing something I’ve long cherished. #MeTooMuch. — Millie Olson, California As a college student warned constantly about the dangers of life on campus, I worry that the legacy of the MeToo movement will not be empowerment for women, but a generation of women terrified of interaction with males, who see any physical intimacy as a threat. When men kiss me on the head or squeeze my shoulders, it does make me uncomfortable. But does it make me uncomfortable because it is creepy or because I have been told I should find it creepy? I hope the pendulum will soon swing back to a more reasonable and thoughtful, less knee-jerk political and cultural climate. — Meg Edwards, Ohio This story personifies exactly what is wrong with the #MeToo movement. It started off as a positive force, bringing to light predatory behavior, and now we’ve gotten to the point where a squeeze or a nuzzle is horrific. This is exactly why the Democrats (who I am one of) will lose the 2020 election. We are eating our own, and to what end? — Monica Evenson, 47, Los Angeles  Special thanks to Lela Moore from The Times’s Reader Center for help with today’s newsletter. To add your own response, visit our story in the Reader Center here. ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ This week, some 2020 candidates have been announcing their first-quarter fund-raising totals. Here are the ones we’ve seen so far: • Bernie Sanders: $18.2 million, 525,000 donors • Kamala Harris: $12 million, 138,000 donors • Beto O’Rourke: $9.4 million, 218,000 donors • Pete Buttigieg: $7 million, 158,550 donors • Andrew Yang: $1.7 million, 80,000 donors What do these numbers tell us? With early polls largely measuring name recognition, these self-reported numbers give us the firmest comparison of strength in a crowded field. More donors, theoretically, means more support. For lesser-known candidates, the number of donors tells us whether they’re likely to qualify for the June debate — a critical opportunity to speak to a larger audience. What don’t these numbers tell us? These are the totals released by the campaigns, so they’re going to present the rosiest possible picture. The full filings will be officially released by the Federal Election Commission on April 15. (Tax day comes for everyone, it seems.) This isn’t a perfect comparison because the candidates entered the race at different times over the past three months. Candidates tend to get a big boost of donations when they first enter a race. Whether they can sustain that momentum is an open — and critical — question. How do these early numbers compare to past years? Pretty dismally, actually. Check out this chart by the Center for Responsive Politics, which compares these numbers to the first quarter fund-raising in 2008, the last time both parties faced such an open race. Barack Obama’s haul of $25.7 million, which neared Hillary Clinton’s $26.1 million total, was seen as a significant victory for the then-Illinois senator. The fact that today’s candidates aren’t raising that kind of dough indicates that the race remains wide open. ____________________ • In China, high tech surveillance, neighborhood watchers and a constant police presence have turned an entire city into a prison. • The details of the most expensive divorce in history are out: MacKenzie Bezos will get 25 percent of the Amazon stock she owned with her husband (and the richest person in the world), Jeff Bezos. Her share is worth about $36 billion. • Inspired by the Joe Biden news, a Times science reporter looked at decades of scientific and psychological research on why intrusions of personal space make us so uncomfortable. ____________________ The president tweeted a meme today. (No matter how many times we write that sentence, it never sounds any less weird.) This one featured a 15-second animated video mocking Joe Biden. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca6867249f0eacbf1f81013", "date": "2019-04-04T22:32:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Should Joe Biden Run for President?", "full_text": " letters One reader urges him to do so, despite his fumbles, because of his broad appeal. Another says he should instead play the role of elder statesman. To the Editor: Re “Run, Joe, Run,” by David Leonhardt (column, Jan. 14): The prospect of the “cast of thousands” on the horizon for the next Democratic presidential nomination does not bode well. Joe Biden is the sure bet for the general election. Past fumbles, a little plagiarism and tone-deaf Anita Hill hearings aside, he owns his mistakes, apologizes, moves on and grows. Joe will appeal to a greater cross-section of American voters than all other possible candidates. He will assemble experienced, informed and skilled cabinet members and advisers. Joe knows what he does not know. Don’t squander resources in an embrace of the inspired and sometimes inspiring prospects, none of whom match his breadth and electability. Joe Biden will provide international dignity and restore national trust. And Joe, select Stacey Abrams as your running mate. Patrick HuntDavis, Calif. To the Editor: I like and respect Joe Biden and hope he will be smart enough not to run for president in 2020. He currently enjoys well-deserved high favorability ratings, especially among Democrats and independents. That will quickly dissipate if he becomes a candidate. He won’t be seen as a change agent, and scenes from the Anita Hill hearings would haunt him throughout the campaign. It would be far better for his legacy and the issues he cares passionately about for Mr. Biden to take on the mantle of elder statesman and campaign around the country in the coming two years to help Democrats recapture statehouses, the Senate and the White House. Joe Biden still has much to contribute to the nation, but he can do it best by not running for president. Marvin CiporenBrooklyn", "id": "5c4608a73a125f5075c0589a", "date": "2019-01-21T18:00:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Resumes Role as One of Nation's Top Eulogists", "full_text": " COLUMBIA, S.C. — On the cusp of an expected White House run, Joe Biden is returning to a familiar role this week as the one of the nation's top eulogists. The former vice president will speak Tuesday at the funeral of Fritz Hollings, the longtime South Carolina Democratic senator who was Biden's Capitol Hill deskmate and friend. The tribute will add to the already memorable eulogies Biden has provided for everyone from Strom Thurmond to John McCain and Ted Kennedy, reflecting his status as the go-to man to speak about the legacies of Washington's one-time titans. But his presence at Hollings' funeral also underscores Biden's unique — and complicated — role in American politics in 2019. It's a reminder of his decades-long presence on Capitol Hill at a time when some Democratic activists are putting a premium on fresh faces. And his relationships with Republicans, Democrats and one-time segregationists like Thurmond and Hollings come at a time when Democrats are placing greater emphasis on gender and racial diversity. In the run-up to a widely expected presidential campaign, it's these types of connections that Biden thinks make him stand out as a stabilizing figure in hyper-partisan times. But it's also what could make him a hard sell to Democrats in a presidential primary. Those close to him see eulogies like the one he's slated to deliver on Tuesday as an example of the unifying role Biden can play in polarizing times. \"He grew up with these people. He learned from them, he came to become a leader with them,\" said Matt Teper, Biden's chief speechwriter in the first term of the Obama administration. \"Republican or Democrat didn't matter. They were all living it together.\" Politics aside, Biden is known as a poignant eulogist. Those close to him say that's because he's someone who has known profound grief following the 1972 car accident that killed his first wife and young daughter. That sorrow was compounded by the 2015 death of his son, Beau, a tragedy that weighed so heavily on Biden that he pointed to it as a reason not to seek the White House in 2016. \"There's a politician way of delivering a eulogy, and a more human way of delivering a eulogy,\" said Jon Favreau, a speechwriter for former President Barack Obama. \"Joe Biden's eulogies are as human as they come, and I suspect that he connects so well with people who are experiencing grief because he's endured more than most.\" Biden acknowledged as much during a 2009 memorial service for Kennedy. The then-vice president credited the longtime Democratic senator from Massachusetts for encouraging him to remain in politics following the car accident that claimed his wife and daughter. \"He crept into my heart, and before I knew it, he owned a piece of me,\" Biden said. \"I wouldn't be standing here were it not for Teddy Kennedy. ... He sort of took over the role of being my older brother.\" Biden has turned to eulogies to express appreciation for those who stood by him during difficult political moments. During his 2003 eulogy of Thurmond , a Democrat-turned-Republican who once ran for president as a Dixiecrat opposed to civil rights for African-Americans, Biden praised the senator as someone who stood by him during the confirmation battle of doomed Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork. \"Strom Thurmond stood by me when others didn't and when it was against his political interest to do so,\" Biden said. \"When partisanship was a winning option, he chose friendship, and I'll never forget him for it.\" In 1972, Biden entered the Senate with Jesse Helms, a North Carolina Republican who opposed civil rights legislation and once called the Civil Rights Act of 1964 \"the single most dangerous piece of legislation ever introduced in the Congress.\" Although he didn't eulogize the ultra-conservative Helms, Biden attended his funeral and spoke about him in a speech six months later. He also referenced Helms in a commencement address at Yale University, recounting how his perception of Helms changed once he came to know him on a personal level. \"It's awful hard having to reach across the table and shake hands. No matter how bitterly you disagree, though, it is always possible if you question judgment and not motive,\" Biden said. He's been more coy in remembering other Republicans. In his August remembrance of McCain , Biden noted that he and the Arizona Republican drew ire from both their caucuses by regularly sitting together in the chamber rather than with their partisans. \"My name's Joe Biden. I'm a Democrat,\" he said, sparking a chuckle from the audience in Phoenix before turning serious. \"And I loved John McCain.\" Biden and his supporters see these moments as bipartisan flourishes, the type of overtures that could be helpful in appealing to white working class voters. And they're not going away, even after he was roundly criticized recently for declaring his successor, Mike Pence, a \"decent guy\" despite his opposition to LGBT civil rights measures. Last week, Biden called former Florida GOP Gov. Jeb Bush a \"hell of a governor.\" But Biden allies say his nature is to make deeper connections with those around him. Dick Harpootlian, a Democratic South Carolina state lawmaker who's known and advised Biden for 40 years, said the former vice president \"was going to be friends with people he wanted to be friends with.\" ___", "id": "5cb4095f49f0eacbf1f840f4", "date": "2019-04-15T04:31:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Lessons From a Complaint Against Joe Biden", "full_text": " letters Readers react to a female politician’s charge that Mr. Biden, who was then vice president, touched and kissed her inappropriately. To the Editor: Re “Biden Strives to Stem Crisis Over Touching” (front page, April 1): We are missing a genuine opportunity to have an open conversation about what change looks like as it relates to the treatment of women. Instead, we are unable to hold two truths at once. Men were acculturated to behave in ways that ignored the sensibilities of women, and that is no longer acceptable. I appreciate that Lucy Flores, the former Nevada legislator who has accused former Vice President Joe Biden of kissing and touching her, is taking this opportunity to speak about her experience, and I simultaneously struggle to understand how it is helpful to render men like Mr. Biden “unfit” because of behaviors that were so deeply woven into the social fabric of this country that we are only now beginning to address them contextually. Real change demands that we reach a place of understanding for what it is to be in the shoes of the other and move in a direction that honors all. Laura PetifordFairfield, Conn. To the Editor: In acknowledging “expressions of affection” during his years on the campaign trail, and saying “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately,” Joe Biden echoes assumptions long protected in our culture. It’s past time that men in power are held accountable for actions that range from creepy to criminal.  This story focuses on how men who are accused justify what they’ve done and how their dreams are in jeopardy.  Thank you to women like Lucy Flores who feel empowered to speak up. It’s helping change the narrative from men’s privileges and how they may be lost to focus on how women in the workplace endure insults and assaults in order to keep their jobs, provide for their families and advance their careers. Barbara EllsonEvanston, Ill. To the Editor: Joe Biden is of a generation of men who inappropriately touch and kiss women they don’t know. And he has to stop doing that. We must of course respect and believe the woman who has accused Mr. Biden of inappropriate behavior. But can we please do so without jumping to political excommunication as the knee-jerk penalty? Stanton W. GreenWest Long Branch, N.J. To the Editor: When I was at a restaurant in Wilmington, Del., last week with three other people, Joe Biden stopped by our table to talk. It was a pleasant conversation, and the whole time he was talking to us, his hand was on my shoulder. I figured that he was a touchy guy, nothing more. Sometimes we need to relax. Susannah SardBronxville, N.Y. To the Editor: O.K., I get it. Touching someone you hardly know on the shoulders and kissing her on the head is annoying and inappropriate. But disqualifying?  In a race where the ultimate opponent will be a man who bragged that he could grab women whenever he wanted to, on a body part that was not the shoulders? Joe Biden has plenty to answer for, especially his treatment of Anita Hill. Let his challengers question him on that, rather than being distracted by the media frenzy of the day. Eileen WestPleasantville, N.Y. To the Editor: Admittedly, Joe Biden can be, on occasion, effusive in his interactions. That is part of his engaging personality.  In my 15 years as a county legislator in Delaware, working and campaigning with Mr. Biden, I found him always kind, helpful and proper in his relationship with me, the women on his staff and the constituents he met.  He never showed any chauvinist tendencies and was an active and vocal supporter of women’s rights.  I have always respected him and valued his integrity. We would be fortunate to have Joe Biden as our next president. Karen VenezkyParis To the Editor: Yet again the proverbial liberal circular firing squad. Don’t Lucy Flores and others get it? The enemy is Donald Trump. Richard BrandshaftVancouver, Wash.", "id": "5ca26b1749f0eacbf1f7fe3f", "date": "2019-04-01T19:47:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Seth Meyers Would Appreciate Joe Biden’s Announcing His Candidacy Already", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Seth Meyers is tired of waiting for Joe Biden to announce whether he’s running for president. Biden has been dropping hints, and members of his inner circle have leaked tidbits about his decision-making process. But no date has been set for an official announcement. Meyers said that there was hardly any ambiguity left — but that it’s still painful to have to wait. “According to The Wall Street Journal, former Vice President Joe Biden has told several supporters that he intends to run for president in 2020. Oh my God, just announce already. It’s like going to a Lou Bega concert and wondering if he’s going to play ‘Mambo No. 5.’ He’s going to.” — SETH MEYERS “Joe Biden is the kid you played hide and seek with who would hide behind a sheer curtain. We see you.” — SETH MEYERS Trevor Noah was impressed that several of the Democratic candidates for president have expressed support for the possibility of issuing reparations to the descendants of slaves. When a clip came up of Senator Elizabeth Warren — who has apologized for claiming Native American ancestry in years past — articulating that view, Noah expressed a slightly more cautious form of optimism. “Wow, that is really great to hear. Although I have my eye on you, Elizabeth Warren. I feel like as soon as reparations are passed, she’ll be like, ‘There’s something I didn’t tell you about my ancestry results. I’m also one-20th black! Who knew? I accept cash, check or Apple Pay.’” — TREVOR NOAH “According to a new poll, 55 percent of Americans are in favor of abolishing the Electoral College, but unfortunately because of the Electoral College, 55 percent is less than half.” — SETH MEYERS “I love the N.C.A.A. tournament, but my favorite part is the close-up shots of the chubby trombone player screaming at the camera. The band, wildly cheering for players who won’t even say hello to them. I was in the band, I know.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, celebrating the arrival of March Madness “The race for the Democratic nomination has barely started, and it’s already getting crazy. Listen to this: Former Democratic Senator Mike Gravel is thinking about running at 88 years old. Eighty-eight. When they heard that, Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden were like, ‘Hey, who’s the new kid?’” — JIMMY FALLON How can President Trump stomach attacking John McCain, a war hero and senator who died last year of brain cancer? “I have another name for people who die,” he says in this faux TV ad: “life quitters.” Jimmy Fallon played a guessing game with Julia Louis-Dreyfus, whose show “Veep” is about to start its last season. Lupita Nyong’o is not following the Hollywood playbook. She’s following her passion. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5c948f1849f0eacbf105e6e9", "date": "2019-03-22T07:29:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden: Heed Beau’s Advice and Run", "full_text": " letter A reader urges the former vice president to run for president but promise to serve only one term.  To the Editor: Re “Uncle Joe’s Family Web,” by Maureen Dowd (column, Feb. 24): Joe Biden should heed his late son’s advice and run for president. Better late than never. But he should state unequivocally that he will not run for re-election. He should say that it will take our country a full four years, or longer, to get back to normal. Not the first 90 days or 180 days, or two years.  He should not spend the last two years of his term running for office, but instead serving the American people to his fullest without thought of glory or power. If only we had a president like that now. David SpielHollis Hills, Queens", "id": "5c7c329b49f0eacbf105b21f", "date": "2019-03-03T20:00:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden, Turkey, Nipsey Hussle: Your Monday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering President Trump’s plan to close the border with Mexico, a woman’s accusation against Joe Biden and the details of New York State’s $175 billion budget. It would take “something dramatic” for Mr. Trump not to close parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week, the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, said on Sunday.  The president has also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to three Central American countries, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, saying they were not doing enough to stop migrants heading north. Last month, 76,000 people were apprehended crossing the border — an 11-year high. Go deeper: Federal immigration officials appear to have emptied an outdoor enclosure in El Paso where hundreds of families of asylum seekers had been detained, after an outcry about conditions there. Yesterday: Pope Francis said that those who close borders “will become prisoners of the walls that they build.” The former vice president defended himself on Sunday after a former Nevada legislator, Lucy Flores, accused him of kissing and touching her during a Democratic campaign rally in 2014. Mr. Biden, who is expected to announce a 2020 presidential campaign this month, issued a statement acknowledging that he had engaged in “expressions of affection” toward people but said, “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately.”  The details: Here’s a look at Ms. Flores, her political career, and her more recent efforts to speak out about social justice, sexism and harassment. Another angle: Several Democratic candidates are focused on attracting small donations to prove their grass-roots appeal, but they’re also privately courting major donors. The State Legislature and Gov. Andrew Cuomo agreed on Sunday to a $175 billion budget intended to change the way millions of New Yorkers commute, shop and vote. The deal, which Mr. Cuomo hailed as “transformative,” includes a congestion pricing plan with a toll for vehicles traveling below 60th Street. How much it will be and which vehicles might be exempt have yet to be decided. The details: Other provisions include a ban on many plastic bags, but not — as activists had hoped — measures to legalize the recreational use of marijuana. Here are seven takeaways. The recent flooding has damaged hundreds of miles of levees, reigniting a debate that has gone on for generations: How should rivers be controlled, who gets to decide and how much protection should be given to those most vulnerable? The levees are aging, subject to uneven regulation and, in many cases, were never designed to withstand the water levels seen in the past decade. Some residents said living and farming in their part of the region might not be viable much longer without major changes. Quotable: “Every event seems like it’s higher,” one farmer in Missouri said. “It’s higher water. You build the levee higher. And the next time you build it higher. You can’t keep up with it.” Recent litigation over the sale and promotion of opioids takes aim at the Sackler family, whose network of trusts and companies include Purdue Pharma, the maker of the highly addictive opioid OxyContin. Above, the company’s corporate headquarters in Stamford, Conn.  Cases in New York and Massachusetts add detail to accusations that some Sacklers promoted the drug even after learning of its dangers. They also highlight a new element in the affair: how members of the family realized they could increase profits as the opioid crisis grew more lethal — by selling treatments for addiction. Chinese drug limits: China announced today that it would treat all variants of the powerful opioid fentanyl as controlled substances, making good on a pledge that President Xi Jinping made to President Trump last year. Brexit votes: Yes, again. The British Parliament is set to try today to find an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawing the country from the European Union, which lawmakers rejected for a third time last week. International elections: In Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s party was poised to lose mayoral races in the capital, Ankara, and in his hometown, Istanbul. A comedian was the leading candidate in the presidential election in Ukraine. And Zuzana Caputova was elected the first female president of Slovakia. Rapper is killed: Nipsey Hussle, who had been nominated for a Grammy this year, was fatally shot in Los Angeles on Sunday.  Perspective: In an Op-Ed, the author Tina Brown says that “a new paradigm of female leadership is emerging,” shown by women such as Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand. Snapshot: Above, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, revealed the name of the country’s new imperial era in Tokyo today. The era, to be called Reiwa, will begin when Crown Prince Naruhito becomes emperor on May 1, after the abdication of his father, Emperor Akihito.  N.C.A.A. basketball: In the women’s tournament, half of the Final Four field is set after Connecticut and Oregon advanced. The other two teams will be determined tonight. On the men’s side, Virginia will play Auburn and Michigan State will face Texas Tech. What we’re reading: This article in The California Sunday Magazine. Our magazine writer Taffy Brodesser-Akner calls the piece, by her sometime colleague and “constant work wife,” Elizabeth Weil, a “moving, superbly reported story about a roving school bus (literally a school on a bus) in San Francisco” that helps people get a high school diploma. Cook: Spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner. Watch: Jordan Peele’s “Us” is full of nods to the original “Twilight Zone,” which is available to stream on Netflix. (Mr. Peele is also producing a reboot of the show, which debuts on CBS All Access tonight. Read our review.) Go: New York City Ballet has said that its next season will feature a mix of the new and the familiar. Here’s what our critic is excited about. Listen: The Backstreet Boys are back, New Kids on the Block have a new single and K-pop groups are thriving. Why are boy bands so central to pop music? Our critics discuss the question in the most recent Popcast. Smarter Living: Time management only gets you so far. The key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management. “Prioritize the people and projects that matter, and it won’t matter how long anything takes,” he writes.  And we look at when helpful parenting crosses the line into helicoptering, or worse, snowplowing. The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centenary of its founding today. The Modernist school (whose name inverts “Hausbau,” the German word for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art. Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.” He enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the faculty. The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis. But the Bauhaus principles of uniting art and functional design in everyday life were long-lasting and spread worldwide. Lastly — and we don’t think this is an April Fools’ Day prank — Burger King is introducing what’s called the Impossible Whopper this week, a meatless version of its signature burger. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the predicament facing Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Positive R.S.V.P.s (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.• We’ve collected 15 bizarre articles that appeared in The Times long ago, including ones about ghosts, talking dogs and sea serpents. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5ca1d98949f0eacbf1f7b156", "date": "2019-04-01T09:26:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What We’re Not Talking About When We Talk About Joe Biden", "full_text": " Sexual harassment is a problem. Dismissing women’s ideas is a more pervasive problem.  Opinion Columnist  This week it’s Joe Biden’s turn in the #MeToo barrel, and like many Democrats, I’m torn about what to think. The allegations by Lucy Flores — that in 2014, when she was running for lieutenant governor of Nevada, the vice president touched her shoulders and kissed the back of her head — cannot exactly be dismissed as an outlier, given that another allegation of guerrilla nuzzling followed just 72 hours later (this time from 2009) and that multiple photo montages online suggest a similar pattern. And so we have another debate about male decency and respect, trying to weigh creepiness against over-exuberant affection, handsiness against glad-handing, all the while remembering that this is Joe Biden we’re talking about, a retail-politics guy from another era, known for arm grabs and bear hugs (you’d see this all the time on the Senate floor — the shoulder squeezing, the close-talking).  He is, by nature, a physically expressive fellow. Hugs are not unfamiliar to him, and he seems to sense when people are feeling fragile, as Stephanie Carter, the wife of Ash Carter, a defense secretary under Barack Obama, wrote in an essay for Medium, noting that the “creepy Uncle Joe” photo featuring her as the recipient of a shoulder rub was quite welcome, thank you very much. These gray-zone allegations are of course still worth examining. But because they are salacious — because they are embodied, because we can actually see them — I wonder if we spend more time discussing them than another gray-zone problem that, in my view, is far more pervasive and often less easily solved with a sharp rebuke or a complaint to human resources: not being taken seriously. Because here’s the truth: Some of the women I know have #MeToo stories. But most of the women I know have stories about feeling dismissed, invisible, less-than. What are they talking about? They’re talking about seeing their ideas gain traction in a meeting only after a man has said them. Or being told after they’ve asserted themselves in a meeting that they dominated it — or at the least talked too much. They’re talking about seeing weeks or months of work being casually dismissed by their superior after he’s had a 10-minute conversation with a male colleague. They’re talking about being mansplained. Personally? I’ve been mansplained about my own book. And about Congress, which I covered on and off for 20 years. You know what didn’t help? Saying Hey, I wrote a book about that! Or Hey, I started my career at The Hill! They’re talking about contradicting a male colleague and watching him get really mad. They’re talking about being called boastful when they’re invoking a necessary credential. They’re talking about having their recollections dismissed until they’re Googled. They’re talking about being given soft or detail-oriented responsibilities while the fellas are delegated the big think. They’re talking about chatting with another woman and a male colleague walks by. “Planning a rebellion?” he asks. (That, admittedly, happened early in the careers of most of the women I have talked to. Have men stopped doing that, I wonder? [Maybe. Hopefully? Probably not.]) Many of these problems are happening in organizations with supposed enlightened politics. They can still have feudal habits. Note what I’m not mentioning: Ambition = pushiness. Too obvious. Or the motherhood penalty. Or a national policy that guarantees only three months off with a newborn, unpaid, if you’re lucky enough to work for an organization to which the Family and Medical Leave Act applies. Or that we have no subsidized child care, and often get looked at as if we’re nuts if we ask for reimbursement for it when we work extra hours. Younger women sometimes look at women of my generation — I’m 49 — and wonder why we may be a little wearier, a little warier, a little less noisy. But it’s not, I don’t think, a matter of false consciousness, or that we don’t know our rights; nor is it that we’re resentful about having had to swallow our own stories as we were coming of age. (Even ancient infractions of a minor variety are, in this climate, the functional equivalent of a loaded gun.) It’s that some of the more ambiguous #MeToo experiences might seem more manageable, or maybe just more ridiculous — and certainly less insidious — than the subtler biases many of us have faced in how men think. They’re about an attitude. A mind-set, hiding in plain sight. Sometimes the two are connected. It can be a short leap from taking physical liberties with a woman (even if they’re minor, even if they’re done out of sheer obliviousness) to dismissing her ideas. Both involve a certain inability to see. Maybe my younger peers have been fortunate enough to see most of these behaviors melt away. But I suspect they haven’t, and they, too, deserve our attention, maybe their own hashtag. I don’t care what it is, just so long as they’re discussed. They’re common. They’re powerful. They’re corrosive and confidence-pulverizing. They’re every bit as real. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Jennifer Senior has been an Op-Ed columnist since September 2018. She had been a daily book critic for The Times; before that, she spent many years as a staff writer for New York magazine. Her best-selling book, \"All Joy and No Fun: The Paradox of Modern Parenthood,\" has been translated into 12 languages.  @JenSeniorNY ", "id": "5ca3b18049f0eacbf1f80414", "date": "2019-04-02T18:59:42+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Scrambles to Stem Crisis After Lucy Flores’s Allegation", "full_text": " Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. scrambled on Sunday to contain a quickly growing crisis for his likely presidential bid, putting forward several former female aides and allies to praise his treatment of women after Lucy Flores, a former Nevada legislator, accused Mr. Biden of kissing and touching her. Mr. Biden also issued a sweeping statement acknowledging that he had shown “expressions of affection” to people during his years on the campaign trail, but said, “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately.” It was the second damage-control statement to come from his team since Ms. Flores made her allegation on Friday, and it was released minutes before she appeared on CNN and argued that Mr. Biden’s behavior with her at a 2014 campaign event was “disqualifying” for a presidential candidate. Yet even as Mr. Biden defended himself, and his former staff members praised his conduct as a boss, some of the former vice president’s would-be rivals in the 2020 Democratic field and some allies said that Ms. Flores’s claim should be taken seriously. “I have no reason not to believe Lucy,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Asked if the allegation should disqualify Mr. Biden from running for president, Mr. Sanders said: “I think that’s a decision for the vice president to make. I’m not sure that one incident alone disqualifies anybody.” (Ms. Flores endorsed Mr. Sanders for president in 2016.) [Who is Lucy Flores? A look at her career in politics and social justice activism.] Mr. Biden’s advisers indicated on Sunday that the accusation would not dissuade him from entering the 2020 campaign, which they suggest he still intends to do at the end of April or just after. But Ms. Flores’s claim, and Mr. Biden’s attempt to rebut her story without dismissing it — or her — offered a vivid illustration of the #MeToo-era challenges that await a 76-year-old political veteran known for his close physical contact with women and men, including hugging, kissing and touching them. The allegation came shortly after Mr. Biden faced criticism for saying he wished he “could have done something” when Anita Hill accused Justice Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment — even though he led the Senate committee that questioned her — leading some in his party to brace for an extended reckoning about Mr. Biden and gender if he enters the race. “Maybe Biden and other male politicians should observe their female counterparts,” said Gloria Steinem, the feminist advocate, in an email on Sunday, noting that since “women candidates are unlikely to hug and kiss men they don’t know, male politicians could refrain from hugging and kissing women they don’t know.” The often garrulous Mr. Biden, treading gingerly at a moment when women around the world are coming forward to share details about mistreatment by men, only issued a statement through his aides rather than grant interviews. “We have arrived at an important time when women feel they can and should relate their experiences, and men should pay attention,” Mr. Biden said. And, he vowed, “I will.” In her CNN interview Sunday, Ms. Flores, 39, said she was glad the former vice president was willing to listen and clarify his intentions. But she said she found it hard to believe that Mr. Biden could not have been aware of how he made her and other women feel, saying there was “a little bit of a disconnect.” “It’s completely inappropriate,” Ms. Flores said of Mr. Biden’s behavior with women. “And that is something that we should consider when we’re talking about the background of a person who is considering running for president.” She first leveled her charges in an essay published on Friday in New York magazine’s The Cut. Ms. Flores, a candidate for lieutenant governor of Nevada in 2014, said that when Mr. Biden visited that year to campaign for her and other Democrats, he came up behind her before the rally, put his hands on her shoulders and planted “a big slow kiss” on the back of her head. Ms. Flores said she felt compelled to come forward now because she believed Mr. Biden’s behavior with women was being left out of political conversations as he prepares for a possible presidential run. Mr. Biden has drawn attention in the past for his intimate touching of political allies, their family members and even supporters he has just met — gestures that are seen as excessive to the point of creepy by some but viewed as harmless by his defenders. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Biden’s allies said he often drew close to people he sensed were nervous before they went on stage in an effort to relax them, suggesting that is what he was doing with Ms. Flores. On Sunday night, Stephanie Carter, the wife of former Defense Secretary Ashton Carter, said Mr. Biden had been doing exactly that in 2015 when the vice president was memorably photographed holding her shoulders at Mr. Carter’s swearing-in ceremony. “Joe Biden in my picture is a close friend helping someone get through a big day, for which I will always be grateful,” Ms. Carter wrote on Medium, adding that she wanted to reclaim an important day for her family “from strangers, Twitter, the pundits and the late-night hosts.” And, in recognition of the political peril the former vice president now finds himself in, Mr. Biden’s female aides and supporters rushed to his defense over the weekend, some of them citing anecdotes about when he, for example, offered to get coffee himself when a male colleague asked one of his female aides to do it. “I have often been asked what it was like to work in the U.S. Senate (a famously all-male environment) in the early- to mid-1990s,” said Cynthia Hogan, who worked for Mr. Biden as a congressional aide and was his counsel when he was vice president, in an email Sunday. “I can happily answer that my experience was wonderful BECAUSE I was lucky enough to work for Joe Biden, who had promoted several women, including me, to leadership roles on the staff of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and who treated us with respect and insisted that others do the same.” Amanda Loveday, a longtime Biden supporter in South Carolina, said, “We all express emotion in our own ways, and Joe Biden’s has always been with gratitude and respect.” But some of Mr. Biden’s potential Democratic rivals, as well as one top White House aide, were less charitable, suggesting he must answer to the specific claim. Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said on ABC’s “This Week” that “people raise issues and they have to address them, and that’s what he will have to do with the voters if he gets into the race,” adding that she has “no reason not to believe” Ms. Flores. And Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate and a longtime friend of Mr. Biden’s, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that while “one allegation is not disqualifying,” it “should be taken seriously.” President Trump’s allies made little effort to deny their glee about the accusation, but at the same time evinced little self-awareness about the multiple sexual misconduct charges Mr. Trump himself has faced. Mr. Trump would face a hard time making an issue out of the allegation, given that his mistreatment of women far exceeds anything Mr. Biden has been accused of. More than a dozen women have accused Mr. Trump of sexual misconduct, including groping and assault. In the weeks before the 2016 election, an “Access Hollywood” tape surfaced in which he was heard making vulgar comments about women. “I think Joe Biden has a big problem because he calls it affection and handshakes,” said Kellyanne Conway, a counselor to Mr. Trump, on “Fox News Sunday.” “His party calls it completely inappropriate.” Henry R. Munoz III, the organizer of the 2014 rally where Mr. Biden and Ms. Flores appeared, and a co-founder of the Latino Victory Project, issued a statement asserting that there was no evidence that Ms. Flores and Mr. Biden were ever alone together at the event. (Ms. Flores said the incident happened just offstage at the event and that there were not many people nearby at that moment.) In Nevada, some who know Ms. Flores called her fearless, driven and a champion of women. “She’s not afraid to put herself out there,” said Felicia Ortiz, a member of the State Board of Education. “I think that’s one of the things that I admire most about her — her honesty and integrity.” Ms. Ortiz, who said Ms. Flores had not told her about the episode, said her friend “won’t be fake for the sake of making other people happy.” But some influential figures in the state’s political establishment, which is still led by former Senator Harry Reid, view her with far less favor. “Flores has a fierce but small following,” said Jon Ralston, a longtime Nevada political analyst. “She lost badly in her last two races. She fell out of favor with many after her 2014 disaster and subsequent poor showing in a run for Congress.” After losing her bid for lieutenant governor, Ms. Flores ran for a Republican-held House seat in 2016 but again fell short in the primary. But in that same year, she endorsed Mr. Sanders’s campaign for president. That early support helped win her a seat on the board of Our Revolution, the pro-Sanders advocacy group, and an appointment to a reform commission convened by the Democratic National Committee after the contentious 2016 primary between Mr. Sanders and Hillary Clinton. Ms. Flores had a falling out with some in Mr. Sanders’s orbit and left the Our Revolution board. She attended former Representative Beto O’Rourke’s campaign kickoff in El Paso on Saturday, but said she is not supporting any candidate at the moment, though she allowed that she “probably will down the road.” She also said she had attended an event for Julián Castro and was part of a group that met with Kamala Harris’s campaign manager. Ms. Flores said she was not paid for her essay in New York magazine. A spokeswoman for the magazine declined on Sunday to comment on Ms. Flores’s piece but confirmed that Ms. Flores was not compensated. Ms. Flores, who now lives in California, started her own company dedicated to empowering Latinas. Over the weekend, a post appeared on Facebook that appeared to be promoting Ms. Flores’s essay and her company, Luz Collective. “One small way to support Lucy Flores right now? Pick up something from her patriarchy smashing Alpha Latina merchandise on Luz Collective,” the post said. Ms. Flores said a friend posted the message without her knowledge. Matt Stevens contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5ca137d949f0eacbf1f7b048", "date": "2019-03-31T21:56:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden, in Video, Says He Will Be ‘More Mindful’ of Personal Space", "full_text": " For five days, Joseph R. Biden Jr. remained in the background as four women came forward saying they had been uncomfortable with the ways he had touched them. He put out three statements through a spokesman, but none of them was his own account or an acknowledgment of the discomfort he had caused. On Wednesday, Mr. Biden decided he needed to address the matter — and his future as a possible presidential candidate — personally. Yet his approach was unusual: He released a seemingly homemade video, laying out his views on connecting with voters emotionally and even physically, and vowing to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space.” “In my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection — that’s my responsibility, I think,” said Mr. Biden, sitting on a sofa, his legs crossed. “I shake hands, I hug people, I grab men and women by the shoulders and say, ‘You can do this.’” But he added: “Social norms have begun to change, they’ve shifted, and the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset and I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying.” The two-minute video amounted to a tacit admission by Mr. Biden, 76, and his aides that they needed to take more action than they had since Friday, when a former Nevada assemblywoman, Lucy Flores, published an essay in which she described Mr. Biden touching her inappropriately and kissing her on the head in 2014. On Tuesday, two more women told The New York Times that the former vice president’s touches made them uncomfortable. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] And his new explanation immediately became part of a lengthening queue of remarks that have prolonged the speculation about whether he will run for president. Though he has not yet announced he would seek the 2020 Democratic nomination, Mr. Biden is widely expected to join the race soon. He began his video in a manner that suggested his entry is just a matter of time: “Folks,” he said, “in the coming month I expect to be talking to you about a whole lot of issues, and I’ll always be direct with you.” Mr. Biden’s aides said on Wednesday that he wanted to address the accusations about his physical contact directly after listening to the women who have criticized him, as well as many other female friends, family members and advisers. They said he was particularly affected by the comments of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a longtime friend of his who is similarly rooted in an earlier political era, when she said Tuesday that “people’s space is important to them, and what’s important is how they receive it and not necessarily how you intended it.” Mr. Biden’s campaign-in-waiting has not ruled out the possibility of a televised interview, but advisers indicated that he was more likely to address reporters when he delivers a speech to a union conference Friday in Washington. The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. Wearing a blue suit jacket over a white shirt with no tie, Mr. Biden stared directly into the camera as he issued his statement, which lacked a direct apology to the women who have come forward. The hastily made video, which appeared to be filmed on a phone, was recorded at Mr. Biden’s Northern Virginia home. Mr. Biden tried to frame the issue around changing social norms. But some women say it is fundamentally about the invasion of personal space, and the change is that they now feel empowered to speak out. In Washington, Mr. Biden has been known throughout his political career for his tactile style of politics, with shoulder rubs, hugs and kisses that some women now say were troubling to them at the time. Mr. Biden also stressed the role that personal connection had played in his political career. “Over the years, knowing what I’ve been through, the things that I’ve faced, I found that scores, if not hundreds, of people have come up to me and reached out for solace and comfort — something, anything that may help them get through the tragedy they’re going through,’’ he said. “It’s just who I am. I’ve never thought of politics as cold and antiseptic.” Reaction to the complaints about Mr. Biden’s behavior has been divided, and that carried over to his video address on Wednesday. The writer Andi Zeisler, co-founder of Bitch Media, cited the lack of an apology as a problem. “Imagine all the time he could have saved,” she wrote, “by typing ‘I’m sorry. I will do better.’” Alicia Garza, a prominent progressive activist, said on Twitter that she was “disappointed” with Mr. Biden’s statement and called it “mealy-mouthed at best.” “Try this,” she added, “I’m so sorry that my actions had this impact on you. I will do the work to be better and do better.” Others, across a range of the political spectrum, praised the video. Several female Democratic lawmakers said they were happy to see him addressing the matter more fully. “I think he needs to listen, and he’s committed to doing that,” said Senator Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin. Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois said, “One thing I know about Joe Biden: He’s a man of his word. If he says he’ll do better then he’ll do better.” She added, “And I do believe that if the women felt that he was inappropriate we have to respect how they felt about it.” Amy McGrath, the Democratic former Marine fighter pilot who narrowly lost a House race in Kentucky last year, said in a tweet that Mr. Biden was “honest, humble, and cares deeply about our country.” Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, wrote in a tweet: “In his own words and clearly heartfelt. Best thing he could do to help himself in this moment.” The former vice president is virtually certain to speak more about his behavior with women before he announces his candidacy because his staff does not want the first days of his campaign to be consumed with questions about the matter. It is unclear, however, whether he can defuse the issue if more women come forward to express their unease about previous encounters with him. “I’ll always believe governing — quite frankly life for that matter — is about connecting with people. That won’t change,” he said in the video. “But I will be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space.” “The idea that I can’t adjust to the fact that personal space is important — more important than it’s ever been — is just not thinkable.” “I will,” he said, his voice softening. “I will.” Maggie Astor contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5ca50b7649f0eacbf1f80ae7", "date": "2019-04-03T19:35:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden’s 2020 Plan Is Almost Complete. Democrats Are Impatient.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The pieces for a Joseph R. Biden Jr. presidential campaign are falling into place: His nucleus of advisers has begun offering campaign positions to seasoned Democratic strategists. They are eyeing a headquarters in Delaware or nearby Philadelphia and a launch date in the beginning of April. Mr. Biden’s family is on board — his wife, Jill, enthusiastically so. Mr. Biden has also been privately reaching out to a range of influential Democrats, including party donors, members of Congress and allies in the early primary states, to gauge their support. A pillar of organized labor, the International Association of Fire Fighters, is prepared to support him in the Democratic primary. And in recent weeks, Mr. Biden’s strategist, Steve Ricchetti, has called a handful of would-be candidates and their aides to signal that the former vice president is likely to enter the race and of late has been telling Democrats that he is 95 percent committed to running, according to officials directly familiar with the discussions. [Sign up for our politics newsletter. Lisa Lerer will be your guide through the 2020 race and share what you really need to know.] Yet while Mr. Biden is plainly further along in preparing for a White House bid than he was four years ago, when he grudgingly deferred to Hillary Clinton after months of consideration in the aftermath of his son Beau’s death, there is still one crucial element outstanding: full and final consent from the former vice president himself. This juxtaposition — an eager cadre of supporters laying the groundwork for a campaign they assure is all but certain while the would-be candidate publicly vacillates — has effectively kept the nascent Democratic race on hold. Mr. Biden’s decision looms as perhaps the most significant unanswered question of the 2020 contest and his entry could bring shape to what has been a diffuse Democratic primary, providing voters with a clear front-runner. As a candidate, Mr. Biden would present Democrats with a clear alternative to the hard-charging liberals who now dominate the race and test the appeal of his old-school political profile at a moment the party is hungry for fresh faces but even hungrier to win. “I absolutely believe he’s going to run,” said Representative Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, who talked to Mr. Biden on the phone this week. “There may still be some doubt in his mind but there’s no doubt in my mind.” Mr. Richmond, the former head of the Congressional Black Caucus, said he believes that the former vice president is the party’s “best candidate to beat Trump.” Still, in conversations over the phone and strategy sessions in his rented Northern Virginia home that are occasionally interrupted by his German shepherds, Major and Champ, Mr. Biden has acknowledged that he is uncertain about his place in the 2020 Democratic primary. He is also uneasy about potential attacks from rivals on his family, aides and advisers say, namely his son Hunter, a lawyer and lobbyist who went through a high-profile divorce in 2017 and has struggled with substance abuse. And in a soliloquy that was unplanned if not unexpected to Biden advisers — rarely do the garrulous former senator’s private views remain private for very long — he openly gave voice to both concerns last week. “I don’t think he’s likely to stop at anything, whomever he runs against,” Mr. Biden said about President Trump, expressing his alarm about putting his “family through what would be a very, very, very difficult campaign” without directly mentioning his younger son. And then he mused about not wanting to pursue “a fool’s errand” in an appearance at the University of Delaware. “What I don’t want to do is take people’s time, effort and commitment without there being a clear shot that I could be the nominee,” Mr. Biden explained. While he is leading the field, Mr. Biden is far from an overwhelming favorite and appears to have support from about a third of the Democratic electorate. Senator Bernie Sanders is close behind him. And even before he enters the race, the former vice president is facing questions about how his decades-long record — which includes support for the Iraq war, his role in enacting draconian sentencing guidelines and his skepticism toward Anita Hill during Justice Clarence Thomas’s Supreme Court hearings — will be received in today’s Democratic Party. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Biden has spent much of this year running what amounts to the non-incumbent’s version of a Rose Garden campaign: giving high-profile paid speeches and appearing at events, both in the United States and abroad, that project him as statesmanlike. Avoiding Iowa and New Hampshire, and the probing questions that would come in early nominating states, Mr. Biden has instead appeared in Munich, where he spoke about the trans-Atlantic alliance, and in Omaha, where he warned that America’s “reputation is being tarnished” abroad during an event with former Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican who was a defense secretary for President Barack Obama. Mr. Biden has already pushed back several self-imposed deadlines for a decision, extending an end-of-2018 timeline into January and then into March. One Democrat eager to work for Mr. Biden was told to expect a launch this month, but more recently got word that April was more likely. This dilatory approach has not prompted any softening in Mr. Biden’s support. He enjoys a halo-like admiration among many Democrats from his eight years at the side of Mr. Obama and leads in initial polls. His ability to remain the early favorite even as other candidates have declared their bids has heartened his advisers, reinforcing their view that the former vice president does not need to rush into the race. “People underestimate the intensity of his support and how broad it is,” said John Anzalone, who will be Mr. Biden’s pollster if he runs. The decision Tuesday by Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, not to run has, in the eyes of Mr. Biden’s inner circle, only strengthened its hand by enlarging the vacuum for a left-of-center Democratic candidate who can appeal to voters chiefly focused on defeating Mr. Trump. On Thursday, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio also removed himself from consideration, eliminating a potential challenge to Mr. Biden from a populist Democrat similarly oriented toward the Midwest. Mr. Bloomberg’s advisers conceded this week that they had concluded Mr. Biden could have been an insurmountable obstacle, recounting with awe the results of focus groups they conducted in which Democratic voters referred unprompted, and admiringly, to Mr. Biden as “Uncle Joe.” “We need a nominee who can speak to the whole country, who can speak to the electorate that the party has been losing, and that quite frankly includes some of my members that were once dependable Democrats,” said Harold Schaitberger, the president of the International Association of Fire Fighters. Gov. Steve Sisolak of Nevada, a moderate Democrat elected in November, said he believed that Mr. Biden would be a strong candidate. Though he stressed his neutrality in the race, Mr. Sisolak described the party’s ideal candidate in Biden-friendly terms: “A good communicator that likes people.” “He’d be a good candidate, like a lot of the other ones,” Mr. Sisolak said of Mr. Biden, with a note of warning to candidates about tacking too far to the left: “I think they’re going to have a lot more trouble being successful, frankly, in the primary too.” Yet in multiple interviews with Democratic aides and officials, including some who plan on working for a Biden candidacy, there are boy-who-cried-wolf doubts about his intentions and deep questions about his viability in a party that is increasingly young, female and nonwhite. There is Mr. Biden’s penchant for praising Republicans, former segregationists and right-leaning columnists. Though aides say he will never back away from his belief in bipartisanship, Mr. Biden’s insistence on telling a story that centers on his relationship with former Senator Jesse Helms — a North Carolina Republican who never apologized for his bigotry — grates on even members of his own team, who have told him as much. Most of all, Democrats — even those who are more ideologically aligned with Mr. Biden — harbor severe doubts that the party should put forward a nominee who would turn 78 shortly after Election Day 2020. “The only major organization in the world that has been, and is, run by 80-year-olds is the Roman Catholic Church,” noted James Carville, the veteran Democratic strategist. There are also practical elements of setting up a campaign that Mr. Biden cannot afford to put off too much longer, including ramping up his light footprint on social media and raising money for some of the big-state primaries that come early next year. Advisers to Mr. Biden have begun extending tentative job offers to several sought-after operatives, asking them to commit to a campaign if Mr. Biden runs. Among them are Pete Kavanaugh, who ran New Hampshire for Mr. Obama in 2012; Kenny D. Thompson Jr., who worked for Mr. Biden’s vice-presidential office; and Cristóbal Alex, a former minority-outreach official for the Clinton campaign. (Politico first reported Mr. Alex’s likely role on Wednesday.) Prominent Democrats from the early nominating states say Mr. Biden must move soon. “He has a lot of good will in this state,” said Gilda Cobb-Hunter, a longtime South Carolina lawmaker. “But if he’s going to get in he needs to get in. I think the window is closing.” Mr. Biden has so far resisted that kind of pressure, and the former vice president has in some cases used his drawn-out period of deliberation to address potential political vulnerabilities. He has spoken repeatedly by phone with the Rev. Al Sharpton, the influential civil-rights activist who hosted Mr. Biden at a Martin Luther King Jr. breakfast, where Mr. Biden expressed remorse for backing tough anti-crime policies in the 1990s. Mr. Sharpton declined to comment on private conversations with Mr. Biden, but he said it seemed unlikely Mr. Biden would so actively confront liberal criticism of his record unless he was planning a campaign. “I think he’d have a big advantage because of his name recognition and because of the imprimatur of the Obama vice presidency,” Mr. Sharpton said. Teri Goodmann, a veteran Iowa Democrat and longtime Biden ally, said she had spoken recently with the former vice president and expected him to run. She said she planned to support Mr. Biden because his experience in international affairs made him well equipped to “put things right in the world, if that’s even possible.” “What there is to do now is to await his decision,” Ms. Goodmann added, “and that’s what we intend to do.”    ", "id": "5c8106bf49f0eacbf105bd09", "date": "2019-03-07T10:00:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Jokes About Hugging in a Speech, Then Offers a Mixed Apology", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Friday twice jokingly referred to complaints from several women that he had made them uncomfortable with his physical contact, and then offered a convoluted apology about their concerns and his behavior. “I’m sorry I didn’t understand more,” he told reporters about his hugs and kisses to women over the years. “I’m not sorry for any of my intentions. I’m not sorry for anything that I have ever done. I’ve never been disrespectful intentionally to a man or a woman.” Speaking at an International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers conference in Washington, the former vice president used his first public remarks since the complaints emerged to try to push past the weeklong controversy that has overshadowed his expected presidential campaign. In his address, he largely stuck to his long-running political themes, highlighting the importance of uniting a divided nation and restoring the “great American middle class” — save for two notable asides. [Read more: Biden didn’t rush into 2020. The race came to him anyway.] As he took the stage, he hugged Lonnie R. Stephenson, the union’s president. “I just want you to know I had permission to hug Lonnie,” he said, and the largely male crowd burst into laughter. The joke came as Mr. Biden was fending off criticism from some Democrats, who worry that the 76-year-old is out of step with the party’s current sensibilities around gender and race. In recent days, he has struggled to address complaints from women that his hugs, kisses and other expressions of his physically intimate style of politicking were unwelcome. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Even as Mr. Biden sought to move past the accusations, they were plainly on his mind. Several minutes into his remarks, Mr. Biden spotted children in the audience. After welcoming them to the stage, Mr. Biden wrapped his arm around a young boy. “By the way, he gave me permission to touch him,” he said, to laughter. “Everyone knows I like kids more than people,” he added. In his comments to reporters, made just a few feet from where President Ronald Reagan was nearly assassinated in 1981, Mr. Biden all but announced his third presidential bid, saying he had been “told by the lawyers” that he had to watch his words to avoid triggering certain campaign finance rules that start with an announcement. He indicated that he viewed a late entry into the crowded field as a strategic advantage. “Give everybody else their day. Then I get a shot, and then we’re off to the races,” he said. But Mr. Biden also said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if more women came forward. He acknowledged that his physically intimate style of campaigning would have to change — a shift he compared to his efforts to adjust to the practice of snapping selfies with voters. “It’s going to have to change somewhat how I campaign,” he said. “It’s a new thing. It’s important, and I’m sure it’s going to take a while for it to settle out. But it’s settled out for me.” But the public joking by Mr. Biden struck a nerve among some of the women who had expressed discomfort with their interactions. “Biden’s consent joke is a clear indication Biden doesn’t get it and doesn’t take the voice of the women who have come forward seriously,” said Amy Lappos, who told The Hartford Courant that Mr. Biden had crossed “a line of respect” in their 2009 encounter at a fund-raiser in Connecticut. And Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman who published an essay last week that described Mr. Biden touching and kissing her inappropriately at a 2014 campaign event, wrote on Twitter: “It’s clear @JoeBiden hasn’t reflected at all on how his inappropriate and unsolicited touching made women feel uncomfortable. To make light of something as serious as consent degrades the conversation women everywhere are courageously trying to have.” Tarana Burke, the founder of the #MeToo movement, tweeted that Mr. Biden’s making light of the controversy was “disrespectful and inexcusable.” Others praised Mr. Biden’s remarks as an indication that he was listening to criticism of his behavior and trying to change. Celinda Lake, a pollster who specializes in female voters, said Mr. Biden’s comments would resonate within a Democratic primary electorate in which a majority of voters are expected to be over 50 — and may identify with Mr. Biden’s struggles to understand shifting norms around interactions between men and women. “I thought he showed that he accepts responsibility, recognizes the issues and is changing,” said Ms. Lake, who worked on Mr. Biden’s 2008 presidential bid. “No one is perfect. His intent was clear. And he is changing.” And Mr. Biden’s comments added more grist for a controversy spinning in several directions at once. Judith Shulevitz, who writes on feminism and other topics, including as a contributing op-ed writer for The New York Times, said the furious backlash about Mr. Biden’s long-public behavior reflected opposition to his candidacy more than his suddenly controversial personal style. “Don’t pretend to be having an elevated discussion of public policy when you’re conducting character assassination,” she wrote in Politico. “You have come to bury Uncle Joe, not review his record. Own up to it.” The union conference offered a friendly and comfortable setting for Mr. Biden, but it represented only one element of an increasingly diverse Democratic Party base. Mr. Biden proclaimed he felt at home with the crowd, liberally sprinkling his comments with the mild profanity that he often deploys at political rallies. “We’ve gotten so damn sophisticated. We’ve gotten so damn elitist,” he said, referring to what he said was a tilt away from valuing blue-collar labor. “I hate the way things have changed over the last 15 to 20 years.” He used the bulk of his speech to critique economic inequality and partisanship, offering an argument for American renewal that could form the basis of his campaign. He also leveled a full-throated indictment of Mr. Trump, perhaps previewing an opening salvo. “What in the hell is happening? Our children are listening,” he said. “This country can’t afford more years of a president looking to settle personal scores.” Some Democrats view the former vice president, with his decades of legislative experience and a folksy, blue-collar political brand, as the most formidable potential challenger to Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden, who also enjoys broad name recognition, leads in most early polling of the race for the Democratic nomination. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But others fear that Mr. Biden, who would enter the White House as the oldest president in American history, and his team are unprepared to deal effectively with the political pitfalls posed by his decades-long legislative record and old-fashioned style. Mr. Biden was slow to respond personally to the furor surrounding the women’s complaints, relying at first on statements issued by aides and supporters. As criticism mounted and more women came forward, Mr. Biden released an online video on Wednesday, in which he tried to explain his approach to “connecting” with people over the years. He has described himself as a “tactile politician” who tries to comfort people with hugs, kisses and touches on the shoulder when they appear nervous or upset. In the seemingly homemade two-minute video, Mr. Biden promised to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space” in the future. Reaction to his comments was divided, with critics questioning the lack of a clear apology for his behavior and supporters praising his willingness to address the issue. Mr. Trump taunted Mr. Biden about the accusations on Thursday, tweeting a 15-second video that mocked Mr. Biden, accompanied by the text “WELCOME BACK JOE!” With his remark, the president seemed to be practically inviting a re-examination of his own record with women, including multiple claims of sexual harassment and the “Access Hollywood” tape that nearly derailed his 2016 campaign. While Mr. Biden fashions himself as a fierce defender of women’s rights, frequently citing his work as the architect of the 1994 Violence Against Women Act, he has already faced obstacles in his efforts to win over female Democrats. Women are expected to make up a majority of voters in the Democratic primary, which includes six female candidates. Recent comments that he wished he “could have done something” to treat Anita Hill’s claims of sexual harassment with more respect during the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Justice Clarence Thomas in 1991 drew fierce backlash from critics, who pointed out that Mr. Biden had been chairman of the Senate committee that questioned Ms. Hill. His shifting position on abortion rights over his 36 years in the Senate has also drawn fresh scrutiny. Jonathan Martin and Sydney Ember contributed reporting. OpinionRoger Cohen  ", "id": "5ca76c3549f0eacbf1f812c5", "date": "2019-04-05T14:53:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kashmir, China, Joe Biden: Your Friday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good morning.  Attacks rattle the tense Kashmir region, China tries to iron out trade deal details and one lone Blockbuster store withstands wider changes. Here’s the latest:   A grenade lobbed at a crowded bus stand Thursday in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir killed one person and wounded several others. The authorities identified the suspect as a 17-year-old Kashmiri from a militant group fighting Indian rule. Around the same time, a video went viral of two men wearing saffron shirts — the color associated with Hindu nationalists — beating Kashmiri street vendors in the northern Indian city of Lucknow. The two events encapsulated the heightened tensions in the region and the wariness between India and Pakistan, which New Delhi accuses of training terrorists.  On the ground: Some in the Kashmir region worry that these scattered attacks are connected to India’s coming national elections and are part of an effort to stoke animosity between Hindus and Muslims for electoral gain. Perspective: Our Opinion columnist Farhad Manjoo tracked how the recent India-Pakistan conflict, sparked by a suicide truck bombing targeting Indian troops last month, played out online and in the media. “What I found was alarming,” he writes. “Whether you got your news from outlets based in India or Pakistan during the conflict, you would have struggled to find your way through a miasma of lies. The lies flitted across all media: there was lying on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp; there was lying on TV; there were lies from politicians; there were lies from citizens.”  President Trump is optimistic that the U.S. and China are close to signing a landmark trade deal. Chinese officials, however, aren’t as confident. While the two sides seem to have agreed on the broad outline of an agreement, with both countries rolling back tariffs and China buying more American goods, the more granular details have yet to be hammered out. That has left Beijing officials nervous, given Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes, according to two people familiar with China’s position. Takeaway: The emerging gap between the two sides throws cold water on enthusiasm that the end of the trade war is near and casts doubts on Mr. Trump’s plans to meet with President Xi Jinping in late March or early April to sign the final deal. Huawei: The Chinese electronics giant sued the U.S. government, arguing that it had been unfairly and inaccurately banned as a security threat. Another angle: Mr. Xi is breaking the rules and longstanding traditions of Chinese politics — by letting his hair go gray. More than a week after the U.S. and the Taliban began another round of peace negotiations with high hopes, both sides are beginning to realize that their efforts will likely be complicated and frustratingly slow. Even the definitions of basic terms have sparked tense disagreements. The Taliban has agreed not to allow Afghan soil to be used as a launchpad for international attacks but is resisting efforts to specify that the country won’t be used by “terrorist” groups. The sticking point: The Taliban argues that there is no universal definition of terrorism, a term that strikes at the core of their ideological narrative of the 18-year war. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo complicated matters by making clear that he considered the Taliban themselves terrorists. A judge will decide on Thursday whether to send President Trump’s former campaign chairman to prison for the rest of his life — potentially the harshest punishment yet against any of the half-dozen former Trump associates who have been prosecuted by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. The sentencing brings to a close one of two cases against Mr. Manafort, whose work in Ukraine and ties to Russians made him a target of Mr. Mueller. Details: This case focused on a financial fraud scheme, in which Mr. Manafort illegally concealed his work on behalf of political parties in Ukraine that were aligned with Russia, and how he hid more than $55 million in payments from that work in more than 30 overseas bank accounts. Mr. Manafort faces another sentencing next week. Here’s an explainer of the separate cases against him. Joe Biden: The former vice president seems to be 95 percent committed to running for president in 2020, a decision that could thin out a crowded Democratic field.  Thailand: A political party that nominated King Vajiralongkorn’s sister as its candidate for prime minister was dissolved by the constitutional court, which called it a “hostile action” against the country’s political system.  Justin Trudeau: The Canadian prime minister blamed a dispute with his former justice minister, which snowballed into a political crisis that tarnished his reputation, on an “erosion of trust.” He denied any wrongdoing. Ebola: The international president of Doctors Without Borders said efforts to end the epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo — the second largest ever — were failing because workers had alienated the community and called on medical teams to treat patients “as humans and not as a biothreat.” Iran: A prominent female lawyer who defended women arrested for not covering their heads in public has been convicted of security-related crimes in a secret trial and could face a “very lengthy sentence.” The details of the charges are unclear but activists say she “is being persecuted for her peaceful defense of human rights in Iran.” R. Kelly: Two women whose parents say they are being held captive by the R&B singer defended him in an interview with “CBS This Morning.” The women, Azriel Clary, 21, and Joycelyn Savage, 23, told Gayle King they were “absolutely” in love with him and accused their families of blackmailing him for money. Music: Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Lady Gaga. In The Times Magazine this week, our critics weigh in on the top 25 songs and artists that define and shape this era that seems particularly grueling and frantic. Gabriel Garciá Márquez: Netflix announced that it had acquired the first ever rights to adapt “One Hundred Years of Solitude,” more than 50 years after the Nobel-winning novelist’s seminal work was first published, catapulting him to the forefront of literature. Blockbuster: An outlet of the video rental store in Oregon is poised to become the world’s last and, rather than fading into obscurity, it is thriving. “Holy cow it’s exciting,” the store manager said of becoming the last one standing. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Ease into the weekend with a comforting dinner of loaded sweet potatoes with beans and Cheddar. Going plastic-free is daunting — if close to impossible — but our Climate reporter is giving it a shot this week. Here’s what you can do to make working from home with children less of a challenge. Today is International Women’s Day, a day of celebration and solidarity. Many scholars trace its origins to 1909, when the Socialist Party of America declared a Woman’s Day. The idea spread internationally. In 1915, Clara Zetkin, a German Marxist who had promulgated the day, used it to protest World War I. In Russia in 1917, revolutionary women used the day to demand bread and peace. In many countries, the celebration these days is less political and more commercial, a holiday marked by candy and flowers. In your Back Story writer’s youth in a Bosnian household in St. Louis, it was a day when the women celebrated one another and all they had overcome. Gifts from husbands and children played a part, but the focus was on women’s bonds to one another. It raises the question: Who gets to shape a holiday? As Temma Kaplan, a history professor at Rutgers University, put it, “Commemorations and holidays are like clay — you can define what they will mean.” Melina Delkic wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g  Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic ", "id": "5c816f5a49f0eacbf105be7b", "date": "2019-03-07T19:20:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Who Is Lucy Flores, the Woman Accusing Joe Biden of Kissing Her?", "full_text": " Lucy Flores, a former Nevada state assemblywoman, published an essay Friday in which she described Joseph R. Biden Jr. touching her inappropriately and kissing her on the head during a Democratic campaign rally in 2014, when he was vice president. With Mr. Biden expected to announce whether he will enter the race for president in April, Ms. Flores’s story attracted scrutiny on his interactions with women over his long career in national politics. On Sunday, Mr. Biden released a statement defending himself, saying he did not believe he had ever acted inappropriately on the campaign trail. [Read more about Ms. Flores’s story, and Mr. Biden’s response.] Several candidates for the Democratic nomination were asked over the weekend to weigh in on the accusations, and Ms. Flores herself discussed her essay, and the response to it, in an interview with The New York Times on Saturday and on CNN Sunday morning. Here’s a look at Ms. Flores, her career in politics, and her more recent efforts to speak out on social justice issues, sexism and harassment. In 2009 — her last year in law school — Ms. Flores, a Democrat, won an election to represent Nevada’s Assembly District 28, in the same part of Las Vegas where she had grown up, becoming one of the first Latinas elected to the state legislature. She served two terms in the Assembly, during which she said she focused on issues like education, consumer protection and aid for victims of domestic violence. At one point in 2013, she gave testimony at a committee meeting on sexual education about having had an abortion when she was 16, and subsequently received threats, according to local news reports. Felicia Ortiz, a friend of Ms. Flores’s who is on the State Board of Education in Nevada, said she let Ms. Flores stay with her after someone shot a bullet into Ms. Flores’s house. “Her strength is phenomenal,” Ms. Ortiz said. Ms. Flores ran as the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor in 2014, which was when she met Mr. Biden. The vice president, she wrote in the essay, had agreed to come to a rally to help her fledgling campaign. At first, she wrote, she felt “grateful and flattered.” But as she was preparing to take the stage, she “felt two hands on my shoulders” and “froze.” Then, she said, Mr. Biden leaned in and “inhaled my hair,” and “proceeded to plant a big slow kiss on the back of my head.” Ms. Flores lost the election in a landslide. The prominent Nevada political analyst Jon Ralston tweeted on Saturday that her loss caused her to fall out of favor with the state’s Democratic establishment and with Harry Reid, the powerful former senator. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] She ran for Congress in 2016 in a bid to represent Nevada’s Fourth District, but lost in a tight primary to Ruben Kihuen — Mr. Reid’s choice — in what she called \"a high-profile, full-of-controversy race.” “I think there have been issues because she has challenged the norm,” said Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party in Nevada. In a Facebook post in early 2016, Ms. Flores endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders for president and became a campaign surrogate. She also served on the board of Our Revolution, the Sanders-aligned advocacy group. “I believe that Bernie Sanders will lead the charge, with many millions of Americans behind him, against the unfettered Wall Street greed that has threatened the very existence of the middle class and shackled so many more to permanent poverty,” she wrote in the Facebook post. “I believe that now, more than ever, America needs a political revolution.” After her primary loss in 2016, Ms. Flores moved to California, where she worked at Mitú, a digital media company, and then helped found a company, Luz Collective, focused on empowering Latinas. Ms. Flores has also embraced the role of social justice advocate, speaking out about sexism and harassment in politics in recent years. She gave support to Masha Mendieta, a woman on Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign who said she was mistreated. And in a 2017 interview with Nevada Public Radio, she said it was “wonderful” that “we are having this conversation about what is the difference between sexism, what is the difference between sexual harassment, what’s the difference between sexual assault.”  ", "id": "5ca1159549f0eacbf1f7b009", "date": "2019-03-31T19:30:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Stephen Colbert Makes Fun of Joe Biden After Misconduct Claim", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has not officially announced his campaign for president, but it has already run into its first big obstacle: Biden was accused last week of inappropriately touching Lucy Flores, a former Nevada assemblywoman, during a rally in 2014. The charge has created days’ worth of headlines, but Jimmy Fallon noted that after President Trump won in 2016 — despite more than 20 accusations of sexual misconduct — this hardly seemed like a disqualifier. “It’s not a good look for Biden. If any other women come forward and say he acted inappropriate, he could get elected president.” — JIMMY FALLON On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert acted out parts of Flores’s account. She said Biden embraced her from behind and nuzzled her hair just before they went onstage at a campaign event. “Mm, is that Garnier Fructis?” Colbert mumbled, imitating Biden. “Are you relaxed yet? No? You actually seem more tense than when I started. Here, let me kiss the top of your head.” Trevor Noah said Biden’s actions rated pretty high on the creepy-conduct scale. “Honestly, smelling hair is one of the creepiest things you can do. It’s on the list of creepy things — it’s right after ‘collecting doll parts’ and ‘sneezing with your eyes open.’” — TREVOR NOAH Attorney General William P. Barr released a statement on Friday clarifying that the four-page letter he put out discussing the Mueller report should not be seen as a full summary. He said the letter, which seemed to broadly outline the findings of the report, “was not, and did not purport to be, an exhaustive recounting of the special counsel’s investigation or report.” Seth Meyers found that confusing. “Wait, so it wasn’t supposed to be a summary? That’s kind of an important detail to leave out. That’s like reading the line, ‘The prince and the princess lived happily ever after’ in a fairy tale, and then you turn the page and there’s a note saying, ‘That was not — and should not — be mischaracterized as the ending. They got divorced the next day.” — SETH MEYERS Meyers commemorated April Fools’ Day not with a prank but with some dark humor. “Today was April Fools’ Day, so if you saw anything in the news that was positive, that’s why.” — SETH MEYERS For his part, Stephen Colbert did his best to prove Meyers right with a wry joke about Trump’s border policies. “Trump is still concerned with our southern border. In response to a surge of migrants coming into this country, Trump unveiled a new approach that treats asylum seekers fairly and humanely. April Fools’! I gotcha.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “I heard that pretty soon Walgreens was going to start selling CBD products in their stores. Meanwhile, you can get actual weed at any Walmart if you just raise your eyebrows at the right employee.” — JIMMY FALLON “Indiana mayor and Democratic presidential hopeful Pete Buttigieg has announced his campaign has raised $7 million in the last three months. But unfortunately he’s just going to use the money to buy more vowels.” — SETH MEYERS, showing the mayor’s name spelled “Buittigieigie” For Jimmy Kimmel, pranking his Aunt Chippy will never get old. “The Late Show” took a peek into Kellyanne Conway’s brain as she tried to explain the president’s health care plans. Tiffany Haddish, who recently announced that she would be hosting “Tiffany Haddish Presents: They Ready,” a Netflix series devoted to younger comics, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday. Here’s an eight-minute look at how the budding 17-year-old pop star Billie Eilish made her hit song, “Bury a Friend.” Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5ca32dd749f0eacbf1f80125", "date": "2019-04-02T09:38:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "When Joe Biden Voted to Let States Overturn Roe v. Wade", "full_text": " The Long Run It was a new era in Washington in 1981, and abortion rights activists were terrified. With an anti-abortion president, Ronald Reagan, in power and Republicans controlling the Senate for the first time in decades, social conservatives pushed for a constitutional amendment to allow individual states to overturn Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruling that had made abortion legal nationwide several years earlier. The amendment — which the National Abortion Rights Action League called “the most devastating attack yet on abortion rights” — cleared a key hurdle in the Senate Judiciary Committee in March 1982. Support came not only from Republicans but from a 39-year-old, second-term Democrat: Joseph R. Biden Jr. “I’m probably a victim, or a product, however you want to phrase it, of my background,” Mr. Biden, a Roman Catholic, said at the time. The decision, he said, was “the single most difficult vote I’ve cast as a U.S. senator.” The bill never made it to the full Senate, and when it came back up the following year, Mr. Biden voted against it. His back-and-forth over abortion would become a hallmark of his political career. As Mr. Biden prepares for the possibility of a third presidential run, women’s rights leaders and activists in both parties are recalling these shifts on abortion, which are likely to draw fresh scrutiny in a Democratic primary race where women are expected to make up a majority of voters. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Biden entered the Senate in 1973 as a 30-year-old practicing Catholic who soon concluded that the Supreme Court went “too far” on abortion rights in the Roe case. He told an interviewer the following year that a woman shouldn’t have the “sole right to say what should happen to her body.” By the time he left the vice president’s mansion in early 2017, he was a 74-year-old who argued a far different view: that government doesn’t have “a right to tell other people that women, they can’t control their body,” as he put it in 2012. Abortion has long been a difficult issue for Catholic Democrats and leaders including former Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York, Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania and Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia. Many Catholic Democrats in government have cited their faith in explaining their personal opposition to abortion while taking stands to support abortion rights — and, in some cases, also holding positions in favor of some abortion restrictions. A Pew Research Center poll last fall showed Catholics divided on whether abortion should be legal. But some of Mr. Biden’s more moderate-to-conservative stances in his legislative record are raising questions in the party about whether he could win over an ascendant liberal wing eager to impose purity tests around issues of race and gender in 2020. Even before announcing a candidacy, Mr. Biden has started trying to rebut those concerns, telling party officials in Delaware this month that he has “the most progressive record” of anyone running for president. But the issue of abortion poses particularly challenging terrain for Mr. Biden. Efforts to restrict access to abortion by the Trump administration, and the new conservative majority on the Supreme Court, have heightened concerns among many Democrats that federal protections of abortion rights could be chipped away or eventually overturned — and that the next president needs to be a dependable ally on abortion issues. “Anxiety is super high among women across the country,” said Ilyse Hogue, president of the abortion rights organization Naral Pro-Choice America. “Joe Biden is trying to carve out a space for himself as the middle, moderate candidate, and he’s going to have to really get with the times and understand that standing with abortion rights is the middle, moderate position.” She added, “I can’t tell you if he’s there or not.” Mr. Biden is already facing criticism from some women’s rights activists over his aggressive questioning of Anita Hill during the Supreme Court confirmation hearings of Judge Clarence Thomas in 1991. Mr. Biden’s comment Tuesday that he wished he “could have done something” to give Ms. Hill’s claims of sexual harassment a more respectful hearing drew fierce backlash from critics, who pointed out that Mr. Biden was chairman of the Senate committee that questioned Ms. Hill. Some women’s rights leaders say Mr. Biden must offer a stronger and more personal apology to Ms. Hill, as well as clarify his views on a broad range of issues including sexual assault, harassment and Republicans’ efforts to limit abortion access. (Mr. Biden has spoken warmly about some Republicans and bipartisanship in recent months.) [Read Michelle Goldberg’s column about how the abortion divide is getting deeper in states.] Mr. Biden declined to be interviewed for this article. His spokesman, Bill Russo, said the former vice president is a supporter of the Roe decision who fought to protect abortion rights by mounting a fierce opposition to the nomination of a conservative judge, Robert H. Bork, to the Supreme Court in 1987. “Because of that, Roe and its progeny have been preserved for 30 years. But for that effort, Roe v. Wade would not be the law of the land today,” Mr. Russo said. Mr. Russo declined to detail Mr. Biden’s current views on specific policies he once supported, including banning all federal funding for abortion services and research. What is clear from a review of Mr. Biden’s record in the Senate, his public statements as vice president and interviews about his comments in private meetings is that his position on abortion grew more liberal over his four decades in federal office. “I’m prepared to accept that at the moment of conception there’s human life and being, but I’m not prepared to say that to other God-fearing, non-God-fearing people that have a different view,” he told the Catholic magazine America in 2015. Mr. Biden has cast his evolution as a matter of wrestling with the teachings of his faith. But his shifting views also reflect a political calculation about the changing mores of his party in the 1980s and 1990s, when many moderate Democratic leaders, including Al Gore and Bill Clinton, altered their skeptical positions on abortion. Mr. Clinton, for one, sought to stake out a center-left position by saying abortion should be “safe, legal and rare.” Today, every candidate in the 2020 field supports abortion rights, with a dozen boasting a perfect scorecard from Naral Pro-Choice America. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “The benevolent reinvention of Joe Biden is what’s unfolding,” said the Rev. Derrick Harkins, the former head of religious outreach for the Democratic National Committee, who was once criticized for what some party activists saw as conservative views on abortion. “His perspectives around a number of issues over the years were reflective of a different context and maybe even, if you will, a different time.” In interviews during his first decades in the Senate, Mr. Biden said he supported the right to an abortion but opposed federal funding to pay for it. That position was shared by Mr. Gore and other Democrats who wanted to support abortion rights but were uncomfortable making taxpayers who were anti-abortion pay for it. As Mr. Biden put it to U.P.I. in 1986, “If it’s not government’s business, then you have to accept the whole of that concept, which means you don’t proscribe your right to have an abortion and you don’t take your money to assist someone else to have an abortion.” In the 1980s, he repeatedly voted against funding abortions as part of the health care plan provided to federal employees and in federal prisons, except in cases where it was medically necessarily for the mother. In 1981, he crafted the Biden amendment to ban the use of foreign aid for biomedical research related to abortion. He repeatedly voted for the so-called Hyde amendment prohibiting the use of federal funds for abortion, including through Medicaid. Both policies remain in place today, despite efforts by Democrats to end the ban on the use of federal funds. In 1984, Mr. Biden supported an amendment praising the Reagan administration’s “Mexico City policy,” which banned federal funding for organizations around the world that provide abortion counseling or referrals. In 2005, he voted against it, supporting an amendment that would have nullified President George W. Bush’s reinstatement of the policy. A voter guide put out in 1987 by two abortion rights groups described Mr. Biden as having an “erratic” record on reproductive rights, writing that he had a “mixed voting and rhetorical record on the issue of whether women should have the right to choose an abortion.” “Joe Biden moans a lot and then usually votes against us,” Jeannie Rosoff, a founder of the abortion rights research organization Guttmacher Institute, told The Wall Street Journal as Mr. Biden weighed whether to enter the 1988 presidential race. “It’s very difficult to know whether this issue is purely personal, purely political or a combination of both with him.” At the time, opponents of abortion rights say they saw him much the same way as liberals: “Unreliable,” said Marilyn Musgrave, a former Republican congresswoman from Colorado and current vice president of government affairs for the Susan B. Anthony List, an anti-abortion group. “I don’t believe he’s made a public statement recently about funding, so I don’t know where he really stands on that now,” said Ms. Musgrave. “Perhaps he evolved on that also.” Aides to Mr. Biden declined to say whether he still supports those specific policies. As the years went on, abortion rights advocates recall, Mr. Biden spoke passionately in meetings about how his religious beliefs shaped his views on abortion. And they, with equal emotion, worked to reframe the issue as a matter of trusting women and their doctors to manage their health care. “Biden’s struggle was genuine and heartfelt,” said Kristina Kiehl, an abortion rights activist who met with Mr. Biden during the 1980s and 1990s. “And I think we were very helpful in kind of guiding him into how this is O.K. and it’s the right thing to do.” As chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1987, Mr. Biden drew praise from supporters of abortion rights for sharply questioning Judge Bork about his opposition to a ruling that struck down birth control bans. In Congress, Mr. Biden repeatedly voted to give access to abortion services for members of the military, and in 1994 he voted to establish fines and penalties for barring access to abortion clinics. In interviews and congressional votes, he defended the Roe ruling. But at other times, he sided with Republicans and conservative Democrats who were trying to limit abortion access. When Republicans began introducing legislation in the 1990s that would outlaw a rare abortion procedure they termed “partial-birth abortion,” Mr. Biden emerged as a reliable ally. He voted for the ban, and then against efforts by President Clinton to veto the legislation in 1996 and 1998. Those proposals did not prohibit a wide enough range of procedures, he argued in a speech on the Senate floor in 1997. “It did not, as I would have liked, ban all post-viability abortions,” he said, backing a proposal by Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, that would include an exception if the mother’s health was at risk. “I was and still am concerned that in banning on partial-birth abortions, we do not go far enough.” In 2003, he backed a third ban that included no exception for the health of the mother, sponsored by Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania. That law moved through the courts for several years before being upheld by the Supreme Court in April 2007. “I was 29 years old when I came to the U.S. Senate, and I have learned a lot,” he said in a 2007 interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “Look, I’m a practicing Catholic, and it is the biggest dilemma for me in terms of comporting my religious and cultural views with my political responsibility.” When Mr. Obama picked him as vice president more than a year later, some abortion rights advocates worried about Mr. Biden’s record. But they felt confident that Mr. Obama’s more liberal views on the issue would prevail, recalled Kate Michelman, a former leader of Naral. “Joe Biden continued his evolution on the issue under Obama. He got there,” she said. “I can’t say for absolute, 100 percent, but I would trust him as president to protect and defend women’s right to choose.” Kitty Bennett and Isabella Grullón Paz contributed research.   ", "id": "5c9ddf0149f0eacbf105fb52", "date": "2019-03-29T09:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Says He Did Not Act Inappropriately with Lucy Flores", "full_text": " Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., under pressure to respond to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman, Lucy Flores, went on the defensive Sunday morning with a sweeping statement saying he did not believe he acted inappropriately but acknowledging that he had made “expressions of affection” during his years on the campaign trail. In his statement, he emphasized that “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately,” but pledged to listen to any accuser. He did not describe in detail the “expressions of affection,” but said there were also “countless handshakes, hugs” and attempts to “support and comfort” people he met. “I may not recall these moments the same way, and I may be surprised at what I hear,” Mr. Biden said. “But we have arrived at an important time when women feel they can and should relate their experiences, and men should pay attention. And I will.” [Who is Lucy Flores? A look at her career in politics and social justice activism.] Mr. Biden, who is expected to announce in April whether he will join the 2020 Democratic primary field, issued his statement two days after an essay by Ms. Flores was published on Friday in New York Magazine’s The Cut. Ms. Flores, a Democrat, said she was 35 at the time of her encounter with Mr. Biden, who was then vice president. Mr. Biden, she wrote, had come to a rally to help her fledgling campaign for lieutenant governor of Nevada and had come up behind her, touched her and planted “a big slow kiss” on the back of her head. Ms. Flores, responding on Sunday morning to Mr. Biden’s statement, said she was glad the former vice president was willing to listen and clarify his intentions. But she said she found it hard to believe that Mr. Biden could not have been aware of how he made her and other women feel, saying there was “a little bit of a disconnect.” “It is completely inappropriate,” Ms. Flores said on CNN about Mr. Biden’s behavior with women. “And this is something that we should consider when we’re talking about the background of a person who is considering running for president.” “For me it’s disqualifying,” she added. “I think it’s up to everybody else to make that decision.” The allegations by Ms. Flores, and a statement on Saturday from a Biden spokesman and the new one on Sunday from Mr. Biden himself, represent a high-profile convergence of politics and the evolving societal norms of behavior and accountability in the #MeToo era, playing out against the backdrop of a presidential primary in which Mr. Biden — though not yet declared — is leading in several early polls. Democratic presidential candidates weighed in on Sunday morning, indicating that they believed Ms. Flores’s allegations but remaining circumspect about the potential political fallout for Mr. Biden. “I have no reason not to believe Lucy,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Asked if allegations should disqualify Mr. Biden from running for president, Mr. Sanders said: “I think that’s a decision for the vice president to make. I’m not sure that one incident alone disqualifies anybody.” Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, stepped delicately around questions about Mr. Biden during an interview on the ABC program “This Week.” “We know from campaigns and from politics that people raise issues and they have to address them, and that’s what he will have to do with the voters if he gets into the race,” Ms. Klobuchar said, while adding that she has “no reason not to believe” Ms. Flores. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, said on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” “Certainly one allegation is not disqualifying, but it should be taken seriously.” Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser to President Trump, said on “Fox News Sunday”: “I think Joe Biden has a big problem because he calls it affection and handshakes. His party calls it completely inappropriate.” Political pressure began to mount on Mr. Biden on Saturday as Senator Elizabeth Warren, who is also a 2020 candidate, said in Iowa that she believed Ms. Flores and called on the former vice president to respond to the allegations. It was a rare instance, this early in the Democratic primary race, of one candidate calling out a potential rival to account for personal behavior. Julián Castro, another candidate for the Democratic nomination, was also in Iowa on Saturday and, like Ms. Warren, said he believed Ms. Flores. As for whether Mr. Biden’s behavior should disqualify him from the race, Mr. Castro said: “He’s going to decide whether he’s going to run or not, and then the American people, if he does, will decide whether they support him or not.” In a telephone interview on Saturday, Ms. Flores, who was attending Beto O’Rourke’s kickoff campaign rally in El Paso, said she expected Mr. Biden, and some of the public, to minimize the interaction. (Ms. Flores has said she has not yet endorsed any candidate for president and has argued that even if and when she does, her endorsement would not “erase” Mr. Biden’s “inappropriate behavior.”) “We don’t have a system in any way, shape or form right now in politics where women and victims can speak out and can have their voices heard and can bring some accountability to people who are misbehaving and people who have done bad things,” she said. Ms. Flores also said she wanted to clarify that the interaction with Mr. Biden she described was not out in the open, a point she said might have been initially misunderstood. “It was private because we were on the side of the stage behind curtains where the audience cannot see, behind the stage,’’ she said. “There wasn’t a ton of people around.” If staff members were present, she added, they were likely running around. On Saturday night, Henry R. Munoz III, the organizer of the 2014 rally and co-founder of the Latino Victory Project, issued a statement saying there did not appear to be any evidence that Ms. Flores and Mr. Biden were ever alone together at the event. Mr. Munoz said the two waited in different holding rooms, then were briefly together offstage “surrounded by security, medical and production staff.’’ Mr. Munoz said he had reviewed photographic documentation and talked to staff members and attendees, and had concluded that he and his organization “do not believe that circumstances support allegations that such an event took place.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter. Lisa Lerer will be your guide through the 2020 race and share what you really need to know.] In her CNN interview on Sunday, Ms. Flores called Mr. Munoz’s statement “entirely irrelevant” because its premise was that she and Mr. Biden were never alone, a claim Ms. Flores said she never made. After her piece published Friday, she said she had been “prepared for the worst.” But she said she has been surprised by the amount of positive feedback and support she has received. Mr. Biden has long been criticized for his handling of the Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas in 1991, when he led a panel of white men in aggressively questioning Anita Hill, who is African-American. On Tuesday, he expressed regret for his role in the hearing, saying, “To this day, I regret I couldn’t give her the kind of hearing she deserved.” As Ms. Flores noted in her essay, Mr. Biden has also faced scrutiny over the years for pictures and videos that have shown him standing close to women and sometimes touching them on the shoulders, whispering in their ears and even giving kisses. In her essay, Ms. Flores said that as those pictures surfaced, her anger and resentment grew. She said that in 2014, Mr. Biden was “the second-most powerful man in the country and, arguably, one of the most powerful men in the world.” “He was there to promote me as the right person for the lieutenant governor job,” she wrote. “Instead, he made me feel uneasy, gross, and confused. The vice-president of the United States of America had just touched me in an intimate way reserved for close friends, family, or romantic partners — and I felt powerless to do anything about it.” She also wrote that she had carefully considered whether to speak out, but said that “hearing Biden’s potential candidacy for president discussed without much talk about his troubling past as it relates to women became too much to keep bottled up any longer.” Ms. Flores has embraced the role of social justice advocate, speaking out about sexism and harassment in politics in recent years. She gave support to Masha Mendieta, a woman on Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign who said she was mistreated. And in a 2017 interview with Nevada Public Radio, she said it was “wonderful” that “we are having this conversation about what is the difference between sexism, what is the difference between sexual harassment, what’s the difference between sexual assault.” Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c9f89f849f0eacbf17dea7d", "date": "2019-03-30T15:22:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden’s Paid Speech Buoyed the G.O.P. in Midwest Battleground", "full_text": " Joseph R. Biden Jr. swept into Benton Harbor, Mich., three weeks before the November elections, in the midst of his quest to reclaim the Midwest for Democrats. He took the stage at Lake Michigan College as Representative Fred Upton, a long-serving Republican from the area, faced the toughest race of his career. But Mr. Biden was not there to denounce Mr. Upton. Instead, he was collecting $200,000 from the Economic Club of Southwestern Michigan to address a Republican-leaning audience, according to a speaking contract obtained by The New York Times and interviews with organizers. The group, a business-minded civic organization, is supported in part by an Upton family foundation. Mr. Biden stunned Democrats and elated Republicans by praising Mr. Upton while the lawmaker looked on from the audience. Alluding to Mr. Upton’s support for a landmark medical-research law, Mr. Biden called him a champion in the fight against cancer — and “one of the finest guys I’ve ever worked with.” Mr. Biden’s remarks, coming amid a wide-ranging discourse on American politics, quickly appeared in Republican advertising. The local Democratic Party pleaded with Mr. Biden to repair what it saw as a damaging error, to no avail. On Nov. 6, Mr. Upton defeated his Democratic challenger by four and a half percentage points. As Mr. Biden considers a bid for the presidency in 2020, the episode underscores his potential vulnerabilities in a fight for the Democratic nomination and raises questions about his judgment as a party leader. Mr. Biden has attempted to strike a balance since leaving office, presenting himself as a unifying statesman who could unseat President Trump while also working to amass a modest fortune of several million dollars. But Mr. Biden’s appearance in Michigan plainly set his lucrative personal activities at odds with what some Democrats saw as his duty to the party, linking him with a civic group seen as tilting to the right and undermining Democrats’ effort to defeat Mr. Upton, a powerful lawmaker who in 2017 helped craft a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Eric Lester, a retired physician who chaired the Democratic Party in Berrien County, Mich., during the midterms, said he viewed Mr. Biden’s supportive remarks about Mr. Upton as a betrayal. Mr. Lester, who attended the speech, said he had confronted an aide to Mr. Biden in the hallway, telling him the former vice president had badly damaged the Democratic cause. “It just gives Fred Upton cover and makes it possible for him to continue to pretend to be a useful, bipartisan fellow,” Mr. Lester recalled saying, adding, “I entered the hall with positive feelings about Mr. Biden and felt very frustrated.” Joe Trippi, a Democratic strategist and veteran of several presidential campaigns, said it was an open question whether voters in the party would punish candidates they see as overly friendly or cooperative with Republicans. He suggested that could be one of the defining pressures for Mr. Biden if he announces his candidacy. “I really believe the country does not want to be at war with each other,” Mr. Trippi said. “But there is also the polarization going on, where people say: Damn it, I want to fight.” Several people involved in planning the event said Mr. Upton, 65, had no role in arranging Mr. Biden’s appearance, and Mr. Upton said he was not involved. There is no evidence Mr. Biden was motivated to praise the lawmaker by anything other than sincere admiration, stemming from Mr. Upton’s role in crafting the 21st Century Cures Act after the death of Mr. Biden’s elder son, Beau, from cancer in 2015. Bill Russo, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, said the research-funding legislation was the foundation of Mr. Biden’s relationship with Mr. Upton. “It was one of the few bipartisan bills passed in an otherwise deeply divided and gridlocked Congress,” Mr. Russo said. “Vice President Biden believes to his core that you can disagree politically on a lot and still work together in good faith on issues of common cause — like funding cancer research.” Regarding Mr. Biden’s decision not to endorse Mr. Upton’s Democratic challenger, Matt Longjohn, Mr. Russo said the former vice president “received hundreds of requests for endorsements from all over the country and endorsed in 135 races this cycle where his impact could be greatest.” Since leaving office, Mr. Biden has sought out opportunities to earn substantial income — mainly through paid speeches and a multimillion-dollar book deal — and his newfound wealth would be closely scrutinized in a presidential race. Mindful of Hillary Clinton’s stumbles in the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Biden has attempted to set guidelines for his activities that would minimize any political sensitivity, declining to give paid speeches to big banks or to accept foreign contributions to several nonprofit organizations he controls. Mr. Biden has continued to pursue commercial activities while he is in the final stage of making a 2020 decision; he is scheduled to give a talk in Grand Prairie, Tex., a suburb of Dallas, on Thursday, as part of an extended tour promoting his 2017 book, “Promise Me, Dad.” The speaking contract for Mr. Biden’s October appearance in Michigan suggests that the popular Democrat would have known he was addressing a Republican-leaning crowd. The speaking series was underwritten in part by organizations connected to Mr. Upton’s family: Among the biggest sponsors listed on the Economic Club’s website are the Whirlpool Corporation, which was co-founded by Mr. Upton’s grandfather, and the Frederick S. Upton Foundation, a family charity named for the same man. The contract for Mr. Biden’s visit shows he was paid $200,000 for his appearance, including a $150,000 speaking fee and a $50,000 travel allowance. It also specifies that the audience would be “primarily older, conservative Republicans and local community members.” The document was disclosed in response to a Freedom of Information request made by America Rising, a Republican group that conducts research on Democratic candidates. It is unclear whether the fees Mr. Biden received in this case are standard for all his speeches. Mr. Biden’s aides have declined to confirm what his rates are for paid appearances, including the appearance in Michigan, or how much he has earned through paid speaking since leaving office. In at least one instance, his speaking bureau, Creative Artists Agency, offered a reduced rate of $100,000, plus travel expenses, to the University of Utah. If Mr. Biden were to have charged a similar range of fees for all his comparable speeches since leaving office, he would most likely have collected between $4 million and $5 million through speeches over the last two years. Representatives of Lake Michigan College, which recently took over management of the Economic Club speaker series, and the Fredrick S. Upton Foundation confirmed that the Upton organization was a major sponsor of the series. Both organizations said Mr. Upton had no role in proposing or choosing the speakers. Lisa Cripps-Downey, president of the Berrien Community Foundation, a nonprofit that administers the Frederick S. Upton Foundation, confirmed that the organization had given substantial funding to the Economic Club, with an annual grant of $80,000 over the last three years — a total close to a quarter-million dollars. “When we see the speakers, we’re just as surprised as everybody else,” Ms. Cripps-Downey said. Mr. Russo said Mr. Biden’s team had been aware that the Frederick S. Upton Foundation helped fund the Economic Club. He said Biden aides had vetted the funding sources for the speaking series and concluded they met his standards. Mr. Upton, who confirmed in a statement that he attended Mr. Biden’s speech at Lake Michigan College, said he had “no idea” that Mr. Biden would refer to him at all, let alone so favorably. The two men ran into each other briefly at the venue, before Mr. Biden’s speech, and they agreed to follow up to discuss the medical-research law’s implementation, an aide to Mr. Upton said. “Being in the audience with my family and hearing Vice President Biden reference our work together was an immense honor,” Mr. Upton said. “He was warmly received by everyone in attendance who were thrilled to have him there, including myself.” For campus speeches, Mr. Biden refuses to let schools pay him with funds that come from the government or from extra fees charged to students — requirements that appear to have been met in this case. Candice Elders, a spokeswoman for Lake Michigan College, said funding for the speaking series there “comes from private sources through ticket sales, memberships, contributions, grants, sponsorships and event proceeds.” She said the grant from the Frederick S. Upton Foundation is part of a fund designed to make up any difference between expenses for the speaker series and the revenue brought in by events. Ms. Elders estimated that the Upton grant makes up about 11 percent of the series budget. Ms. Elders said that no public money was used for the event, and that Mr. Biden addressed a group that included several hundred college and high school students while he was on campus. “Young people from area schools and nonprofit organizations are routinely invited to attend Economic Club events at no cost,” Ms. Elders said. The greatest impact of Mr. Biden’s speech, however, was outside the lecture hall. His remarks about Mr. Upton ricocheted through Michigan’s Sixth Congressional District. Mr. Upton alluded to Mr. Biden’s praise in a debate with Mr. Longjohn the next day, and his campaign sent out a mailer stressing Mr. Upton’s bipartisan streak, including Mr. Biden’s description of him as “the reason we’re going to beat cancer.” A business-backed Republican group, Defending Main Street, ran digital ads on Facebook showing a grinning Mr. Biden and the crucial quote — “Fred Upton is one of the finest guys I’ve ever worked with” — above a mock version of the former vice president’s signature. Mr. Lester, the local Democratic chairman, said he strove to contain the damage. In an email to Mr. Biden’s staff, Mr. Lester implored the former vice president to back Mr. Longjohn: “Surely VP Biden did not intend to endorse Mr. Upton and slight the local Democratic candidate here,” he wrote. Mr. Longjohn, the former national health officer of the YMCA, said in an interview that he had been disappointed to see Mr. Biden “clap Mr. Upton on the back in an establishment political way.” He said his campaign had reached out to Mr. Biden’s staff through an intermediary, seeking to discuss his involvement in the race. “There was nothing but silence,” Mr. Longjohn said. “We had just requested a phone call and there was no response.”   ", "id": "5c48a5b73a125f5075c05e66", "date": "2019-01-23T15:17:17+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Health Care, Brexit, Joe Biden: Your Tuesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Health care is off the table, but in Democrats’ war chest. Above, Democrats at a health care rally at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. President Trump announced that Republicans would drop efforts to overhaul health care until after the 2020 election. The move, set in motion by the usually sharp strategist Mitch McConnell, ensures the issue will be central in the campaigning. (Note: A new study found that Americans borrowed $88 billion to pay for health care last year.) Mr. Trump also had words for Puerto Rico. He cast its leaders as “incompetent and corrupt,” increasing partisan tensions over aid bills blocked in Congress. Democrats object to the limits on aid to the U.S. territory, while Republicans insist on more aid for Midwest farmers. Puerto Ricans have been dumbfounded. Their governor tweeted back: “Mr. President, once again, we are not your adversaries, we are your citizens.” _____ 2. Joe Biden’s physical style with friends and strangers was well known in Washington. But now he is facing accusations of unwelcome touching from a second woman, even as he is expected to announce whether he’ll run in the 2020 presidential election. Our political reporter unpacks where Mr. Biden stands in the modern age of #MeToo. From Opinion, Jennifer Senior argues that dismissing women’s ideas is a more pervasive problem than sexual harassment. Separately, our executive editor, Dean Baquet, and our top newsroom lawyer, David McCraw, are discussing press freedom at 7 p.m. Eastern as part of our TimesTalks series. Join here for a YouTube stream, or go to @nytimes to watch the livestream on Twitter, where you can leave your questions. _____ 3. Prime Minister Theresa May has been driven to gambling. In a surprise announcement, the British leader, pictured above today, said she would seek another extension for Brexit and would work with the opposition Labour Party to come up with a joint plan. That would involve negotiating with the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and shifting toward a softer Brexit. The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator warned Britain’s Parliament that a chaotic “no-deal” exit was becoming “day after day more likely.” But don’t call British lawmakers one-note. They simply couldn’t ignore a nearly naked climate-change protest in Parliament’s viewing gallery on Monday. _____ 4. After Lion Air Flight 610 plunged into the Java Sea last October, killing all 189 people onboard, urgent questions confronted the aviation industry. Above, parts recovered from the doomed flight. After another Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed five months later, it became clear that Lion Air, Boeing, subcontractors, investigators and regulators all put up barriers that made it difficult to share information about what went wrong, leaving many in the dark. Our reporters uncovered a climate of distrust and a lack of communication. Separately, Boeing’s software update for its troubled 737 Max jetliners has been delayed for several weeks before it can be submitted to the F.A.A. _____ 5. India’s antisatellite test is wreaking havoc in space. NASA said that debris created by India’s test last week, above, in which it shot down its own satellite with a rocket, could threaten the International Space Station. Six crew members are currently aboard. The U.S. space agency identified 400 pieces of debris from the test, some of which pose a risk to the station because of the speed at which they travel, up to 29,000 miles per hour. “That kind of activity is not compatible with the future of human spaceflight that we need to see have happen,” NASA’s administrator said Monday. _____ 6. Chicago became the largest American city to elect a black woman as its mayor. Lori Lightfoot, a lawyer and former federal prosector, will replace Rahm Emanuel. When she takes office in May, she will also be the city’s first openly gay mayor. Ms. Lightfoot won as a political outsider in a city that has often elected insiders. And in Ferguson, Mo., Lesley McSpadden, whose son, Michael Brown, was killed there, is eyeing a seat on the City Council. Should she win, a seat would give her a role in overseeing the very police department that killed her son. _____ 7. Was the only oil well drilled in Alaska’s Arctic refuge a potential gusher or a dud? The findings were a closely guarded secret for three decades. Now, as the Trump administration plans to open the area to drilling, we found answers in a Cleveland courthouse that could embolden opponents and prompt second thoughts among potential lease bidders. “The discovery well was worthless,” said a retired lawyer who was involved in a long-since-forgotten lawsuit filed there in 1987. _____ 8. For your leisure time: The Australian stand-up comic Hannah Gadsby declared she was quitting comedy in her hit Netflix special last year, “Nanette.” Last week, she returned to the Australian stage with “Douglas,” a new show named after her dog. In advance of her American tour this month, she chatted with us about receiving an autism diagnosis late in life, and what it’s like getting back on stage. And we have 10 new books to watch for in April and a Q. and A. with Lori Gottlieb, author and psychotherapist, who dishes about what your therapist is thinking about in your therapy session. _____ 9. Our 52 Places Traveler played tourist in his own city. Walking the length of Manhattan (it took more than eight hours), Sebastian Modak noticed details he had missed for years and faced a rude awakening when he came upon the city’s largest development in decades, Hudson Yards. Entering Central Park, pictured above, made him “ecstatic.” But he couldn’t help gravitating to the familiar. “All of a sudden, this megacity, one that can be so elusive to so many — even me — felt a whole lot like home,” he wrote. _____ 10. Finally, does the air fryer deliver on its golden promise? Our food columnist Melissa Clark had to find out. The fast-selling appliance, celebrated for its faux-frying, low-mess, odorless ability, has been panned in review circles. She took on French fries, chicken wings, brussels sprouts, doughnuts and jalapeño poppers, to name a few. “Here’s the thing I realized about the air fryer,” she concluded. “‘Frying’ is the thing it does worst of all.” We hope you have a more appetizing night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca3dd0249f0eacbf1f80520", "date": "2019-04-02T22:05:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Rupert Murdoch, Joe Biden, Mozambique: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest.  1. Members of Robert Mueller’s team said their findings were more damaging than originally suggested. Some investigators told associates that Attorney General William Barr failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry, according to government officials. It was the first evidence of simmering tensions between the special counsel’s team and the Justice Department. At stake is the narrative of one of the most consequential investigations in American history. Some members of Mr. Mueller’s team are concerned that Americans’ views of the investigation will have hardened before the full report becomes public. _____ 2. Rupert Murdoch’s empire of influence.  Over the last six months, two of our reporters, Jim Rutenberg and Jonathan Mahler, interviewed more than 150 people around the world to chart how the Murdoch influence machine destabilized democracy in North America, Europe and Australia. Our three-part investigation describes how Murdoch media outlets encouraged and capitalized on right-wing populism, even as the Murdoch children struggled bitterly over their father’s enormous media empire. Short on time? Skip to the takeaways. _____ 3. A low boil on Capitol Hill. House Democrats, above, authorized a subpoena to get a full copy of the Mueller report, setting up a confrontation with the Justice Department. Practically speaking, the move does not ensure that Congress will get what it wants. The House also passed a nonbinding resolution that condemns the Trump administration for pushing a federal court to obliterate the Affordable Care Act. Republicans called it an empty gesture. A House committee formally requested on Wednesday that the I.R.S. hand over six years of President Trump’s personal and business tax returns. And with dozens of Mr. Trump’s judicial and sub-cabinet nominees held up by Democrats, Senate Republicans invoked a “nuclear option” to speed up confirmations. _____ 4. “I’ll be much more mindful. That’s my responsibility.” In a video, Joe Biden pledged to be more “respectful” of personal space, working to buffer his potential 2020 bid from multiple complaints of unwanted physical contact. The former vice president said he realized “social norms have begun to change.” On the official campaign trail, the Trump campaign has quietly installed allies in the most significant state parties, urging them to discourage conservative criticism of the president. _____ 5. Helicopters overhead, celebrity fans and protesters lining the streets: It was a mob scene outside a federal courthouse in Boston today as high-profile parents faced charges in the college admissions scandal. The actresses Lori Loughlin, above, and Felicity Huffman and 33 other parents face a special kind of public shaming as symbols of entitlement and greed. And we looked more closely at U.S.C., one of the universities at the center of the bribery scandal. Interviews with students show how different life can be on either side of the class divide. _____ 6. “We can and will make Chicago a place where your ZIP code doesn’t determine your destiny.” That was Lori Lightfoot’s pledge of equity at her victory party. The former prosecutor is the first African-American woman and the first openly gay person elected as Chicago’s mayor. Possibly a part of her appeal: In a city scarred by corruption, she has never held elective office. When Ms. Lightfoot replaces Rahm Emanuel in May, she will inherit a scandal-prone police department and a persistently high homicide rate. _____ 7. The Justice Department threatened to sue the Alabama state prison system after a damning report revealed shockingly brutal conditions for inmates. A two-and-a-half-year investigation by the civil rights division of the department found “flagrant disregard” for prisoners’ constitutional right to be free from excessive and cruel punishment. Alabama’s prisons have long had among the highest rates of homicide and rape in the country. Above is one of 2,000 photos taken inside an Alabama prison. _____ 8. In Mozambique, cholera is spreading fast. Humanitarian agencies say malaria, measles and starvation may follow in the chaos left by a devastating cyclone two weeks ago. About two million people are displaced. Above, a camp for displaced survivors in Beira, Mozambique. Some progress has been made. A cholera vaccination campaign is set to start, water service has been restored in some areas and roads are being repaired. We also traced clusters of measles outbreaks confounding health officials from Indonesia, the Philippines, Madagascar, Venezuela and the U.S. An outbreak in Rockland County, N.Y., had roots in an annual Hasidic pilgrimage from Israel to Ukraine. _____ 9. 20 points. 21 assists. 20 rebounds. On Tuesday night, Russell Westbrook, the veteran Oklahoma City Thunder guard, became the second N.B.A. player in history to reach the coveted triple-double status. Mr. Westbrook made his feat into a moment of remembrance. “That wasn’t for me,” he said. “That was for my bro — that was for Nipsey.” He was honoring the rapper Nipsey Hussle, whose fatal shooting over the weekend shook Los Angeles and many N.B.A. players. The police said the killing appeared to be connected to a personal dispute. _____ 10. And you thought winter was over. We have nine questions for the final season of “Game of Thrones,” HBO’s biggest hit ever. Need a refresher before it starts on April 14? We have a (very) thorough guide. Above, Japanese fans gather at a convention in Tokyo last month. In other television previews: What do a podcast, an infamous jailhouse interview, a viral ad and the Coen brothers have in common? They all helped inspire “Killing Eve.” The BBC thriller, starring Sandra Oh, returns for a second season on Sunday. Our critic at large talked to the team behind the show’s many moods. _____ 11. Finally, a look at what creative giants left behind. In recent weeks, our obituaries team has chronicled the lives of some of the best in their respective fields. We took a look at what they left behind — movies, a poem, a photograph, a sandwich. Our co-chief film critic Manohla Dargis recalls encounters over the years with one of these giants, the French New Wave filmmaker Agnès Varda, above. On the topic of growing old, Ms. Varda offered this suggestion: “Never complain, never explain.” Have an unflappable evening. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca5326e49f0eacbf1f80b8b", "date": "2019-04-03T22:22:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Weighing Unique Steps to Reassure Voters Concerned About His Age", "full_text": " Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., aware that concerns about his age could weigh on his candidacy if he runs for the White House, has discussed two steps that could reassure voters about electing a 78-year-old president next year. Mr. Biden and his top advisers are considering nodding to the rising next generation in Democratic politics — and elevating an heir — by announcing a running mate early, well before the nomination is sealed. Also under discussion is a possible pledge to serve only one term and framing Mr. Biden’s 2020 campaign as a one-time rescue mission for a beleaguered country, according to multiple party officials. Such moves would amount to a big play that would send a signal about the seriousness of the election, and could potentially appeal to both liberal activists and general-election voters who are eager to chart the safest route toward defeating President Trump. But Mr. Biden is not sold on either approach, and both carry significant risks, chiefly that they could call further attention to the age of a candidate who would turn 80 in the White House. There is also the risk that Mr. Biden could appear presumptuous — even imperious — by choosing a running mate before the electorate has the chance to sift the field of candidates, presenting voters with a two-person package before anyone has voted for even the top spot on the ticket. More than a dozen people are running in the Democratic primary, including a record number of women and minorities, and announcing a running mate too soon could foreclose the possibility of uniting the party by inviting a popular runner-up to join the ticket later. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Still, the former vice president is clearly mindful of the need to have a ready answer for when voters and reporters ask him about his age if and when he enters the race, a decision that could come as soon as next month. Earlier this month, for example, he raised the issue over lunch with members of the Delaware congressional delegation. Senator Tom Carper, who is himself 72, said he offered a succinct response to Mr. Biden: “Two words: Nancy Pelosi.” Ms. Pelosi, the 78-year-old House speaker, is doing “a hell of a job,” Mr. Carper noted, a view that is widely shared by the sort of Democrats who will cast ballots in next year’s primary. But unlike Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Biden is facing a sprawling Democratic primary field, filled with younger contenders, in a party that has a history of elevating candidates who are new to the political scene. Mr. Biden was first elected to the Senate in 1972, a few weeks after one of his potential rivals, former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, was born. While Mr. Biden currently leads all the primary polls, usually with about a third of the vote, his support skews toward the older end of the Democratic base. Both Mr. Biden and his top aides question whether he will be able to make deep inroads with millennial voters in a primary, and also whether he will be able to raise large sums of money online. Unlike a number of other candidates, such as Mr. O’Rourke and Senators Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, Mr. Biden has not spent years building a muscular digital operation aimed at stimulating online supporters to give money. So his team is mulling a host of unconventional steps, including several related to fund-raising, transparency and the mechanics of a campaign. But none would carry the impact of naming a running mate early or vowing to serve just one term. Two of Mr. Biden’s closest advisers, Steve Ricchetti and Mike Donilon, have floated both possibilities in recent weeks. And they have been egged on by some Democratic lawmakers, who have urged the Biden associates to strongly consider the one-term pledge to immediately defuse the question about his age. Mr. Donilon has also, though not recently, discussed the general concept with Mark Salter, who was John McCain’s chief of staff and unsuccessfully lobbied Mr. McCain to make a similar vow when he ran for president at the age of 72 in 2008, according to people familiar with the conversation. “It was about country first,” said Mr. Salter, recalling Mr. McCain’s slogan. “Biden could do the same thing now with the country in even more desperate straits.” (Mr. Salter did not recall discussing the matter with Mr. Donilon.) [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But Mr. Biden is uneasy with the prospect of pledging up front not to seek re-election, believing that it would make him a lame-duck president before he even takes office and cripple his ability to get anything done, according to some of his aides. He is more open to the idea of picking a vice president well before the customary time frame, which would be around the party’s nominating convention next year. Some of his top advisers, speaking on the condition of anonymity, believe that naming a running mate before he is the nominee could not only mollify voters concerned about his age but also send a message about the sort of administration he would put in place. They have been interested in this strategy on and off for months, and CNN recently reported the conversations were stirring again. With a younger but still accomplished vice-presidential nominee at his side, Mr. Biden could hope to demonstrate his commitment to diversity and to restoring stability to Washington. Among the people Mr. Biden’s close allies have discussed for the role are Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia House minority leader who narrowly lost a race for governor last year, and Ms. Harris and Mr. O’Rourke, if their campaigns appear to flag in the coming months. Mr. Biden and Ms. Abrams had lunch in Washington last week, and advisers to both declined to say if he had broached the subject of the vice presidency. Aides to Mr. Biden who spoke to him after the lunch said he told them he found Ms. Abrams “incredibly impressive.” Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, who has known Ms. Abrams since she was a college student because they were both Truman Scholars, said she “would bring a lot to the ticket,” but said he is torn because he would also like to have her as a colleague in the Senate. Jaime Harrison, a senior Democratic National Committee official who is considering a campaign for Senate in South Carolina, said the idea of Mr. Biden partnering with an African-American running mate had been widely speculated about in his state as a way to “mobilize and energize the African-American base in the election.” Mr. Biden is popular among South Carolina Democrats, a majority of whom are black, but his appeal as an older white man could be put to the test there in a race that features the most diverse set of candidates ever. And his lengthy Senate record includes important episodes that Mr. Biden may have to defend before black voters, such as his past support for draconian anti-crime legislation, for which he has expressed regret, and his handling of the 1991 Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill hearings. “It’s been the buzz for months,” Mr. Harrison said of the suggestion that Mr. Biden settle early on a black running mate. “Some people are saying it would be a way to give a nod to African-American women or the African-American community in general, because they’ve given so much to the party.” Mr. Biden’s advisers stress that he is still finalizing his decision whether to run and is nowhere near determining whether to name a running mate early. And some of them grumble that neither Mr. Sanders, who is a year older than Mr. Biden, nor the 72-year-old current occupant of the Oval Office face the same amount of questions about his age. The former vice president, though, has said those questions are “legitimate.” At a speech last fall, Mr. Biden said it is “totally appropriate for people to look at me and say, if I were to run for office again, ‘Well God darn you’re old.’ Well chronologically I am old.” But he suggested that he is in fine shape, something his younger brother echoed earlier this year in a radio interview when he favorably compared Mr. Biden to Mr. Trump, “who is obese and probably couldn’t walk 18 holes of golf.” There is some precedent for choosing a running mate early. In 1976, Ronald Reagan named Senator Richard S. Schweiker, a moderate from Pennsylvania, several weeks before the Republican convention where he lost a narrow battle with President Gerald Ford for the G.O.P. nomination. More recently, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas named Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive, in a desperate and unsuccessful effort to overtake Mr. Trump ahead of the 2016 Indiana primary. Mr. Biden’s team is discussing a very different scenario: not picking a running mate as a last resort but rather enlisting someone to shore up Mr. Biden’s expected status as a front-runner. Despite his concerns about online fund-raising and generational churn in the Democratic presidential field, Mr. Biden would have powerful advantages over the current array of candidates, commanding deep respect and affection across nearly the entire Democratic coalition and boasting unmatched credentials on national security, international diplomacy and other matters of state. And that is exactly why some of his supporters would rather not have him rush to name a running mate. “My general counsel would be to let the primary season play out a little bit before doing something like that,” said Mr. Coons.    ", "id": "5c93786949f0eacbf105e40c", "date": "2019-03-21T11:39:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Joe Biden Defends Praise for Embattled Republican During Midterms", "full_text": " Joseph R. Biden Jr. defended his decision to praise an embattled Republican lawmaker during a paid speech in Michigan last fall, telling a group of mayors on Thursday morning that it reflected his philosophy of how to “get things done.” The New York Times reported on Wednesday that Mr. Biden had earned $200,000 for an October speaking engagement in Benton Harbor, Mich., three weeks before the midterm elections. During that speech, Mr. Biden gave a glowing commendation to Representative Fred Upton, a powerful Republican who joined with Mr. Biden to increase funding for cancer research and, separately, helped forge legislation to gut the Affordable Care Act. In Washington Thursday, Mr. Biden offered a forceful defense of his supportive remarks about Mr. Upton, signaling that he has no intention of blunting his instinct toward bipartisanship and compromise in the event that he runs for president. The former vice president has told allies in recent weeks that he is leaning toward running against President Trump in 2020. “I read in The New York Times today that I — that one of my problems is if I ever run for president, I like Republicans,” Mr. Biden said, according to a video posted by the public-affairs network C-Span. He joked: “O.K., well, bless me father, for I have sinned.” “Fred Upton, I went out and spoke at an event and he was there and I praised him about the fight against cancer,” Mr. Biden continued, citing Mr. Upton’s role in passing the 21st Century Cures Act. “It mattered, saved people’s lives and he stepped up, he and three other Republicans stepped up and helped us pass it. So I acknowledged that and now I’m — I don’t know what I am.” Mr. Biden did not mention the speaking fee he received for his trip to Michigan, or address Mr. Upton’s role in the drive to repeal the Obama administration’s signature health care law, two dimensions of his Benton Harbor appearance that complicate Mr. Biden’s depiction of his remarks as a case study in old-school conciliation. In a statement published Wednesday, Mr. Upton described Mr. Biden’s praise for him as a surprise and an “immense honor.” Mr. Biden campaigned widely around the country during the midterm elections and made a particularly strong effort for Democrats in the Midwest, including elsewhere in Michigan. But in Mr. Upton’s district, Mr. Biden’s favorable comments were used in Republican advertising in the final weeks of his re-election campaign against Matt Longjohn, a Democrat who was a national Y.M.C.A. health official. Mr. Upton ultimately won re-election by four and a half percentage points, the narrowest margin of his career. The article describing Mr. Biden’s speech to the Economic Club stirred particularly strong criticism of the former vice president among liberal Democrats, who view him as an ideological centrist and distrust his philosophy of aisle-crossing political compromise.  ", "id": "5c49e8b73a125f5075c061d7", "date": "2019-01-24T16:32:52+0000"}]