[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Cancel Kirstjen Nielsen", "full_text": " Her role in terrorizing children should make her a permanent pariah. Opinion Columnist On Sunday evening, news broke that Kirstjen Nielsen was leaving her job as head of the Department of Homeland Security. The New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman tweeted that according to people close to Nielsen, one reason she hung on as long as she did was because “she was aware how awful life would/will be for her on the outside,” given her role in defending Donald Trump’s policies. Let’s make it so. Nielsen did not create Trump’s monstrous policy of separating migrant families, but she should be known forever as the person who carried it out. She put babies in cages, traumatized children for life, and then appears to have lied to Congress about what she had done. She did this evil work with either blithe incompetence or malicious sloppiness, failing to create a system to properly track kids who were ripped from their families. On Friday, the Trump administration said it could take up to two years to identify thousands of separated migrant children. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]  Now Trump is gearing up to do it again. According to NBC News, for months the president has “urged his administration to reinstate large-scale separation of migrant families crossing the border.” Nielsen reportedly resisted, citing court rulings and Trump’s own 2018 executive order ending his administration’s family separation policy. Trump’s choice for acting homeland security secretary, Kevin McAleenan, apparently is more open to the idea. Should this happen, Congress and some judges will try to intervene. But Trump is growing ever more lawless and autocratic. “There is a near-systematic purge happening at the nation’s second-largest national security agency,” a senior administration official told CNN on Monday, speaking of D.H.S. The president is filling positions with acting officials, circumventing Senate confirmation. Some senior members of the administration, like Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, are flatly refusing to cooperate with congressional oversight. CNN reported that Trump told border agents to ignore judges when taking steps to keep migrants out. We should not assume that government institutions will restrain the president before he visits anguish and terror on thousands more of the world’s most vulnerable children. What happens to Nielsen now can serve as an example to other people in the administration as they decide whether to just follow orders. By this, I don’t mean that people should scream at Nielsen in restaurants. Rather, those horrified by family separation should do whatever they can to deny Nielsen the sort of cushy corporate landing or prestigious academic appointment once customary for ex-administration officials. The fact that she evidently didn’t go as far as an erratic and out-of-control Trump wanted is immaterial; she should be a pariah for going as far as she did. Coincidentally, the day before Nielsen resigned, a coalition of progressive groups signed on to a petition asking corporate America to blacklist senior people in the Trump administration, including Nielsen, who took part in crafting, enacting or defending family separation. “Allowing her to seek refuge in a corporate corner office or a boardroom, university, speaking agency or elsewhere poses a significant reputational risk for those involved,” said Karl Frisch, a spokesman for Restore Public Trust, the group organizing the campaign. How much of a risk will depend on decent Trump-hating Americans. The Resistance has been flagging recently, even if abhorrence of Trump’s degenerate administration has not. Many people, having worked frantically to deliver the House to Democrats in the midterms, are exhausted. The crackup of the Women’s March, and the resulting tensions between some black and Jewish activists, has been deeply dispiriting. The beginning of the Democratic presidential primary has reanimated old intra-left animosities. And relentless outrage is hard to sustain, no matter how justified. But with the possible return of family separation, the Resistance needs to regroup, and demanding a boycott of Trump officials tainted by baby-snatching is a good place to begin. Such a boycott would take advantage of one of the central asymmetries in American life. Rural voters, who tend to be conservative, have disproportionate political power; it’s why Trump, who lost the popular vote, is president in the first place. But cosmopolitan progressives have disproportionate economic and cultural power, which is why we have the faintly absurd phenomenon of woke capitalism. That power should be deployed to force the sort of accountability Nielsen reportedly fears, and to serve as a warning to others that the Trump stink never washes off. On Monday, Henry Farrell, a professor at George Washington University, wrote that he will boycott any university or think tank that employs Nielsen, and refuse to be on panels with anyone from such an institution. He invited others to join him. It’s a small start, but a start. Nielsen should not be permitted to launder her reputation through a fellowship at Harvard, like Corey Lewandowski or Sean Spicer did. She should not get to follow H.R. McMaster to Stanford. There are plenty of places that will hire a disgraced child-torturer — private prisons, which often hold undocumented immigrants, are a big business. And Henry Kissinger’s storied social life shows that America’s elite is far from inhospitable to ghouls. But as the country hurtles into a dangerous new phase of unbound Trumpism, those who want to say no need to muster whatever leverage they can, including public shame and economic sanctions. Either the leaders of corporate America and academia want to be associated with terrorizing toddlers, or not. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.  Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn ", "id": "5cabd8fb49f0eacbf1f81b2e", "date": "2019-04-08T23:26:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Brief, Controversial Tenure of Kirstjen Nielsen", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Jessica Cheung and Eric Krupke, and edited by Paige Cowett As homeland security secretary, she enacted and publicly defended the family separation policy. In President Trump’s eyes, she didn’t go far enough. Tuesday, April 9th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The secretary of homeland security was forced out of her job, even after carrying out and defending President Trump’s most restrictive immigration policies. Why that wasn’t enough. It’s Tuesday, April 9. Caitlin, describe what happened over the weekend. caitlin dickerson So on Sunday, Kirstjen Nielsen, who’s the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security — she’s the nation’s highest-ranking immigration officer — she goes to the White House for an unscheduled meeting with President Trump. michael barbaro Caitlin Dickerson covers immigration for The Times. caitlin dickerson And he, in recent weeks, has been very riled up publicly over an increasing number of people crossing the border, especially families who seek asylum who have legal protections that mean they have to be allowed into the country. So the secretary arrives at her meeting with a list of ideas for how to address this problem, and she thinks she and the president are going to come up with a way forward. But instead, a few hours later, the president sends a tweet announcing that she will be leaving her job. archived recording 1 Breaking news here on CNN. From the White House, the secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen, has resigned. archived recording 2 President Trump made the announcement via Twitter. archived recording 3 In a tweet, the president said, quote, “Secretary of homeland security Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, and I would like to thank her for her service.” archived recording 4 So it appears that the president is swinging the revolving door yet again, trying to install new people in his administration to carry out his bidding. michael barbaro That sounds like a meeting that went very poorly for the secretary. caitlin dickerson Clearly, they were not able to come up with a solution that both could agree on. michael barbaro And by tweeting her resignation, I think what we’re politely suggesting is that he fired her. caitlin dickerson Fired her. Yes, exactly. michael barbaro So what is the history between President Trump and Secretary Nielsen? caitlin dickerson So Secretary Nielsen takes her job at the end of 2017. She’s replacing her former boss, John Kelly, who went to be President Trump’s chief of staff. And she takes on this role as basically the person who has to approve any new policy that’s going to be introduced along the border. And it’s at this period of time when, I think, the President is settling into his role. He’s fired up about really coming up with some hard evidence that he can point to ahead of the midterm elections, for example, and say, look, I’m keeping my campaign promises, and I’m lowering immigration really dramatically. So right away, she’s faced with aggressive ideas for how to prevent people from coming to the United States, and the first one is family separation. michael barbaro And what do we know about how Nielsen responds to that very controversial policy when it is first introduced to her? caitlin dickerson She slow-walks it. We reported in December of 2017 that a family separation policy had reached her desk for that final signature, and it took her four months to approve it, during which time she and President Trump clashed quite a bit. She had questions about the legality of it. She had questions about the practicality and how the public was going to respond. And she had just a lot of reservations about moving forward. But ultimately, she agreed, and the policy was introduced in a formal way in April. archived recording 1 Quit separating the kids! They’re separating the children. Mr. President, don’t you have kids? Don’t you have kids, Mr. President? archived recording 2 I don’t believe in this. This is not America. This is not our country. This is not what we should be doing. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) This administration did not create a policy of separating families at the border. archived recording Shame on everybody that separates children and allows them to stay at the other side of the border, fearing death, and allow the secretary to come here and lie. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) Calling me a liar are fighting words. I’m not a liar. We’ve never had a policy for family separation. And let’s be clear — if an American were to commit a crime anywhere in the United States, they would go to jail, and they would be separated from their family. This is not a controversial idea. caitlin dickerson Internally, she’s, if not resisting, she’s certainly questioning and slowing down a lot of these policies. And then, externally, to the public, she’s having to defend them and really look like the face of them, and that ends up being something that she does actually over and over again in her job. michael barbaro And remind us what ends up happening to the family separation policy. caitlin dickerson So President Trump stopped the practice himself by signing an executive order. archived recording (donald trump) I consider it to be a very important executive order. It’s about keeping families together. caitlin dickerson But it didn’t matter, because a few days later, a federal judge intervened, deemed the practice unconstitutional, and he didn’t stop there. He said that — archived recording Families who have been separated as a result of the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy be reunited within 30 days. The order says kids under 5 must be back with their parents within 14 days from now. caitlin dickerson So sort of a resounding disavowal of this policy. michael barbaro caitlin dickerson Exactly. And so even though she’d pushed back against it, Secretary Nielsen ends up taking the blame. michael barbaro So what’s another example something that she expresses internal qualms about but then goes out and defends publicly? caitlin dickerson So one of the next policies to be introduced was an idea to limit asylum pretty significantly so that people could only apply if they showed up at a legal port of entry — whereas beforehand, people could and did very often show up anywhere along the border, present themselves to a border agency, ask for protection, and they were ushered into this legal process. The idea was to say, you can’t do that anymore. You have to show up at a specific office, which is, of course, a pretty tall order for somebody who’s coming from Central America with maybe a cell phone, maybe not, not a whole lot of resources. They don’t always know exactly where these offices exist. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) You do not need to break the law of this country by entering illegally to claim asylum. If you are seeking asylum, go to a port of entry. caitlin dickerson But as Nielsen pointed out to the president, it was very hard to justify, because immigration law explicitly says that you can request asylum regardless of where you enter. michael barbaro So again, Nielsen is saying inside the White House, hey, this might not be legal. I have reservations about it. But it nevertheless gets implemented. And as you’ve said, she’s the decider. So she signs off on it. caitlin dickerson Exactly. And it’s important to point out that when Nielsen pushed back against President Trump, it wasn’t a reflection of her being a liberal on immigration or having a more sympathetic view toward asylum seekers. She just happened to be the face of an entire agency full of people who work in immigration enforcement but who still made clear to her that there were going to be legal and logistical roadblocks to putting these ideas into place. michael barbaro And what happens to that port of entry policy that would limit the number of locations that people can apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson Very quickly after, it’s blocked by federal courts, and it remains that way. archived recording A district court ruled that the ban conflicts with immigration law. caitlin dickerson So this was the executive branch trying to very clearly contradict laws that were approved by the legislative branch. archived recording And now the Supreme Court has refused to step in to unblock the ban. michael barbaro So her legal reservations are well-founded. In other words, her advice to the president is correct, even if it’s ignored. caitlin dickerson That’s right. Her analysis is sound, because each time she is pushed back, she’s been right. And these ideas have been blocked. michael barbaro Do any of these policies that we’re describing — family separation, limiting the locations at which people can seek asylum — do any of them succeed in curbing the flow of migrants, even for the very short period of time that they’re in place before they are legally challenged? caitlin dickerson They don’t. archived recording New numbers show a 400 percent — 4-0-0, that is — 400 percent increase over just last year. caitlin dickerson Last October, we saw a record number of families seek asylum in the United States. This is after family separation is introduced. And every month since then, the numbers have gotten even higher. archived recording C.B.P. officials say Border Patrol agents are on pace for apprehensions and encounters with more than 100,000 migrants in March. michael barbaro So not only are these policies being blocked in court, for the very short bit of time that they were ever in place, they’re not doing their job of limiting the flow of migrants. caitlin dickerson They’re not. The numbers keep going up. And some people would argue that maybe the policies weren’t left in place for long enough to show any concrete outcome, and we can’t know that for sure. But what we do know is that these policies that Nielsen was pushing back on, saying they’re not going to work, didn’t work. And the numbers have continued to rise. michael barbaro And so what does that do to the president’s relationship to Nielsen? She’s in a sense being vindicated, but the problem she’s there to solve is only getting worse. caitlin dickerson She’s simultaneously sort of being vindicated if you look at it from a legal standpoint, but from a relationship standpoint, she’s the face, in President Trump’s eyes, of these failures. archived recording 1 Kirstjen Nielsen appears to be on shaky ground. That’s according to a New York Times report. Nielsen told colleagues that she was close to resigning Wednesday after being berated by the president in front of the entire cabinet. archived recording 2 Nothing sets him off more than immigration, and I’m told that meeting on Wednesday in the cabinet room was very heated, was incredibly heated. She spoke back to him about it, tried to defend herself. caitlin dickerson So it’s in this context of the policies that are being introduced being blocked in the courts, the number of people crossing the border rising, and Trump’s relationship with Secretary Nielsen falling apart that he comes up with his most aggressive idea yet. archived recording Another day, another threat from President Trump, and today, he is threatening to shut down the southern border. caitlin dickerson Where he wants to completely seal the border, 100 percent. Not let anybody come into the U.S. archived recording (donald trump) And if they don’t stop them, we’re closing the border. We’ll close it, and we’ll keep it closed for a long time. I’m not playing games. michael barbaro And how exactly would that work? caitlin dickerson Well, we shouldn’t assume that the president had any particular policy in his mind when he tweeted that he wanted to seal the border. We can assume, though, that he wasn’t talking about, for example, cargo moving back and forth or people with actual visas and permission to come into the United States, but really that he’s talking about shutting down asylum and shutting down the ability of people who don’t previously have permission to come into the United States. And the policy that we know has come closest to achieving that goal, one that’s been kicking around in Washington for some months now, would be to get rid of asylum as we know it. It would no longer allow anyone to apply for asylum in the United States. And instead, people who needed that status or wanted that status would have to stay in their home country, similar to the way that Syrian refugees apply to come to the United States — apply from home, wait many months, go through lots of vetting and background checks, and then only if they’re approved, they would be allowed to come here. michael barbaro And I guess, what could be a more extreme version of limiting asylum than literally telling people, you cannot come to this country and apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson I don’t think there is a more extreme version, because I think this idea means eliminating asylum. It goes away. michael barbaro And as best we understand it, what was Secretary Nielsen’s response to this idea? caitlin dickerson From what we know, it’s been very similar to the way she reacted to family separation, to that idea to significantly limit asylum to the ports of entry, which is that this is going to be challenged by the courts immediately. It’s going to be a huge lift to get a policy like this introduced, to work out the logistics, and all of it will be for naught, because it’ll be enjoined by the courts. And it’s that oppositional and resistant stance that she’s in when she walks into the White House for her meeting with the president. It’s unclear who threw up their hands first or second, or whether they both did it, but what we know is that the president did not leave her with an option, that he, at least, decided this isn’t going to work. You’re out. And she was by the end of that night. And so what that means is the homeland security secretary who oversaw some of the most controversial and aggressive immigration policies this country has ever seen — even she wasn’t aggressive enough for President Trump. And so now she’s gone, and he’s looking for a replacement who will go even further. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So Caitlin, who is the president turning to to replace Nielsen as he looks for somebody to go further than she was willing to go? caitlin dickerson He’s turning to Kevin McAleenan, who’s currently the head of United States Customs and Border Protection. That’s the agency that oversees both the customs officers who you meet at the airport when you’ve gone on vacation abroad and then the Border Patrol. Those are the police, the boots on the ground along the border. And McAleenan is known as sort of a policy wonk, a really smart and reasonable guy who’s willing to work with Democrats, and somebody who served under President Obama as well. He’s got more than 10 years of experience at the agency. People know him as this reasonable guy. But when you dig a little bit deeper, McAleenan was inspired to get into homeland security work right after 9/11. And at C.B.P., especially most recently when he was overseeing this agency, it really became known as the sort of policy engine with him at the center of it coming up with ways to turn President Trump’s ideas into actual policies that could be carried out. If D.H.S. is this agency run out of Washington that’s overseeing all of this work, it was McAleenan’s staff members that were actually physically taking children away from their parents, that were physically turning asylum seekers away at the border or telling them to go elsewhere or to wait in line. So now he’s moving into this role where he’s got even more power, but I think we can expect that he’ll continue to do what he was doing before, which was take President Trump’s ideas that are sort of extreme and that aren’t necessarily encumbered by the immigration laws, norms, history, and he’ll try to translate them into something that’s practical and that can be introduced on the ground. michael barbaro So even though he might seem moderate at first glance, he’s actually someone who the president trusts to put these more restrictive, maybe even extreme policies into practice. And he’s been involved in doing that already. Now he’s being elevated to do it at an even higher level. caitlin dickerson Exactly. michael barbaro And I guess that all makes sense. If Nielsen is seen as too reluctant to put these policies into practice, then the president would turn to somebody who is willing to do that. caitlin dickerson That’s right, who is willing to try. But remember that McAleenan is going to run up against the exact same legal framework and logistical challenges that anybody else in that role is going to. michael barbaro Right. So if these policies are going to run into legal trouble in the courts, regardless of who is leading the agency, what does it matter, in the end, if the leader of the Department of Homeland Security is gung-ho about the President’s policies or is reluctantly saying yes, as Nielsen was? caitlin dickerson I think you can look at that question a couple of different ways. On one hand, you’re right that it’s not going to make a huge difference who’s sitting in the office at the head of the Homeland Security Department, because no matter what they introduce, if it violates the immigration law, they’re going to wind up in court. But another way of looking at it is family separation only existed as an official sort of policy for what, 45 days under zero tolerance? Not a very long period of time before it had to end. But still, I don’t think that very many people are going to argue that family separation was a small thing or something that didn’t affect very many people. I mean, I think it had a huge impact. So I do think that if you have a hawk running the Homeland Security Department, even when they’re sort of encumbered by the existing legal framework, they can make some pretty big changes, even if, ultimately, those changes wind up in court. I think that Kevin McAleenan has two things going for him in President Trump’s eyes. The first, like we said, is that he knows the policies and he knows the situation on the ground like the back of his hand. And the second thing is that he’s shown a willingness to follow President Trump’s lead, and so he may be the person who’s best positioned to come up with the most legal ways to achieve President Trump’s goals. And even if the policies that he comes up with don’t remain in place in the long term, they might at least exist long enough to give President Trump something to point to and show his supporters when they ask, where are you on these campaign promises? Where are you on this idea of, if not sealing the border, significantly decreasing the number of immigrants coming to the United States? michael barbaro So even if these policies are ultimately blocked by the courts, it feels like it’s important to this president to have someone at the Department of Homeland Security who is willing to try them, and that may be enough. caitlin dickerson I think in President Trump’s heart of hearts, right, he would hope that he would find not only somebody who is willing to try but somebody who is going to succeed. He wants aggressive policies to be instituted in the long term. But I think it’s better in his mind than nothing to have somebody who’s willing to try. And as we know, politically, it’s better than nothing, because then the president can point to these policies that he tried to introduce, if only it wasn’t for the courts who had blocked him, or if only it wasn’t for Congress who blocked him. michael barbaro Right. My intention was there. Somebody else is at fault for it not working. caitlin dickerson Exactly. He has at least an attempt to meet these campaign promises to point to when voters ask, why haven’t you made a significant change? So I think that having a more aggressive leader in place who’s more willing to introduce these policies, when they get stuck in the courts, it allows Trump to blame the courts rather than his own administration for getting in his way. He can say, look, I tried, but these judges are blocking me, whereas it wasn’t just the judges blocking him with Secretary Nielsen. It was her, too. michael barbaro If Congress is not going to change the law, and I think the assumption is that they are not going to do that anytime soon when it comes to basic immigration law, is the president right to suggest that the current system is broken, and the only way to fix it is to test these new ideas, even if they push the boundaries of the law? caitlin dickerson I would say yes to the first part of your question. Most people agree that the system is broken. But when it comes to fixing the problem, what are you trying to fix? In the president’s mind, the problem is the vast number of people coming here to seek asylum. His idea of a fix would decrease that number. But other people see the problem as not that people are coming here to seek asylum at all but the ways that we’re dealing with them. We don’t have space to place people physically in custody when they enter. We don’t have judges to hear their cases for years and years. So if you see that as the problem, then — michael barbaro He’s not really addressing those. caitlin dickerson He’s not addressing those problems, and I think that’s because a lot of people who agree with the president are concerned that if we come up with better systems for processing asylum seekers — we make it more organized and efficient and, in some cases, comfortable — that all that will do is encourage more and more people to come. And again, if the numbers themselves are what you see as the problem, then making the system better only makes it worse. michael barbaro Caitlin, what does all of this tell us about where President Trump plans to go on immigration? caitlin dickerson I think it shows that President Trump is going to continue full steam ahead to achieve his immigration goals and that if there are people, even informed career officials, who want to stand in the way of that, they’re going to be pushed out, because he’s very committed to the goal of limiting the number of people who come to the border, regardless of the many legal challenges he’s already faced, those that are sure to come, the public reaction, all these other things notwithstanding. We’re not seeing any signs of slowing down. I think this week is actually an indicator of a ramping up of these goals. michael barbaro In other words, the gloves are coming off, even though, in a lot of people’s minds, they thought the gloves were already off. caitlin dickerson That’s right. It’s like another set of gloves are coming off. michael barbaro Caitlin, thank you very much. caitlin dickerson Thank you. michael barbaro On Monday, The Times reported that President Trump plans to push out more officials from the Department of Homeland Security, including the department’s general counsel and the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as he seeks to carry out his harder-line approach to immigration. A few hours later, in the latest legal setback to that approach, a federal judge blocked a Trump administration policy that required those seeking asylum to wait in Mexico rather than in the U.S. while their cases made their way through U.S. immigration court. The judge found that the policy violated federal law. Here’s what else you need to know today. archived recording (mike pompeo) Today, the United States is continuing to build its maximum pressure campaign against the Iranian regime. I am announcing our intent to designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, including its Quds Force, as a foreign terrorist organization in accordance with Section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. michael barbaro On Monday, the Trump administration said that it was designating a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time that the U.S. has classified part of any country’s government as such a threat. archived recording (mike pompeo) We’re doing it because the Iranian regime’s use of terrorism as a tool of statecraft makes it fundamentally different from any other government. michael barbaro The move was debated at the highest levels of the administration, with top officials at the Defense Department and the C.I.A. opposing the designation, arguing it could justify Iranian attacks against the U.S. and its allies. But the president’s national security adviser, John Bolton, and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, advocated for the decision, arguing the designation would further isolate Iran by discouraging businesses from working with its military. archived recording (mike pompeo) This historic step will deprive the world’s leading state sponsor of terror the financial means to spread misery and death around the world. michael barbaro In response, Iran’s government said it was designating the U.S. Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, as a terrorist organization as well. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher Kirstjen Nielsen was forced out as secretary of homeland security, even after carrying out and defending President Trump’s hard-line immigration policies. We look at why that wasn’t enough. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Caitlin Dickerson, who covers immigration for The New York Times. Background reading: Ms. Nielsen arrived at a meeting with the president ready to talk about a plan for the border. Afterward, she submitted her resignation.  The president’s purge of top homeland security officials is a sign that he is preparing an even more aggressive crackdown on immigration.  Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Caitlin Dickerson contributed reporting. “The Brief, Controversial Tenure of Kirstjen Nielsen” was produced by Rachel Quester, Jessica Cheung and Eric Krupke, and edited by Paige Cowett. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5cac6d8249f0eacbf1f81cb2", "date": "2019-04-09T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Late-Night TV Says Good Riddance to Kirstjen Nielsen", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. The late-night hosts all lined up to bid good riddance to Kirstjen Nielsen, the former secretary of homeland security, who resigned on Sunday under pressure from President Trump. During her tenure, Nielsen oversaw the White House’s crackdown at the southern border and became the public face of the administration’s controversial family-separation policy. The three major late-night hosts each had his own way of sending her off. “Goodbye, Kirstjen. Whoever replaces you permanently is going to have some very big cages to fill.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Now, Nielsen’s departure is not a total shock. Reportedly, for weeks, Nielsen has felt ‘in limbo.’ Limbo is the right word here, because we’ve all been watching just how low she can go.” — STEPHEN COLBERT, quoting from a CNN report “Nielsen said that this was the right time to step down and she looks forward to spending more time separating her family.” — JIMMY FALLON Trevor Noah said that Nielsen might have a hard time finding work in the private sector after the role she played in the administration. “Nielsen is leaving this White House with her reputation in tatters. Remember, she was the face of the Trump administration’s family separation policy, where kids were split from their parents and kept in cages. So basically, the only job she can get now is working for R. Kelly.” — TREVOR NOAH “Since Trump took office, a record number of people have left the White House. Which, even for Trump, is pretty impressive. It’s almost like he’s leading the resistance by himself. Everyone out there is like, ‘We gotta get these people out of office!’ And Trump is like, ‘Way ahead of you folks. Resist!’” — TREVOR NOAH As Democrats in Congress and in New York State attempt to wrest Trump’s tax returns from his grasp, he has insisted that he is under audit and therefore cannot release the returns. Seth Meyers called for him to finally make them public. “It’s a congressional request. You can’t just turn it down like hors d’oeuvres at a party. ‘You’ve been served.’ ‘Oh, no thank you, I’ve already had 100 Big Macs.’” — SETH MEYERS “Trump is the first president in 40 years not to release his tax returns. And without them we have no idea where he’s getting money from or who he owes money to. Which is crazy — he’s the president! You’d want to know if your doctor had a side business running a mortuary. ‘Your test results were negative, but just in case, have you thought about a wood casket? Pine is very nice.’” — SETH MEYERS “McDonald’s will no longer serve Filet-O-Fish sandwiches after midnight. If you’re someone who’s eating Filet-O-Fish at McDonald’s after midnight, this might be a good time to re-evaluate your life choices.” — JIMMY FALLON “I think Joe Biden just doesn’t get it. Which is great news for him, because guys who just don’t get it is one of the most powerful voting blocs in America.” — TREVOR NOAH, after watching footage of Joe Biden telling jokes about his habit of being physically affectionate with women in professional scenarios Jeff Goldblum makes a completely worthless — but lovable — tax adviser. After a Red Sox player was injured by his 2-year-old son, Jimmy Kimmel decided he wanted to hear both sides of the story. Chelsea Handler — who has been speaking candidly of late about her feelings about Robert Mueller — will sit down with Jimmy Fallon on Tuesday. Here’s a complete, interactive guide to the final season of “Game of Thrones,” which starts on Sunday. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5cac5fd249f0eacbf1f81c95", "date": "2019-04-09T09:01:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democratic Senator Seeks Perjury Investigation of Kirstjen Nielsen", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — A Democratic senator asked the F.B.I. on Friday to open a perjury investigation into the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, over her congressional testimony about the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border. The senator, Jeff Merkley of Oregon, cited a previously unreleased document from December 2017 that showed that Ms. Nielsen’s staff considered a range of options for dealing with the influx of families seeking asylum, including a policy that would “separate family units.” But testifying before the House Judiciary Committee last month, Ms. Nielsen said that “we’ve never had a policy for family separation.” She also denied in subsequent interviews and statements on social media that she had pursued such a policy. “In light of these conflicting facts,” Mr. Merkley wrote in a letter to the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray, “the F.B.I. should immediately investigate whether Secretary Nielsen’s statements” violate “federal statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements to Congress.” In an internal Department of Homeland Security draft released by Mr. Merkley on Thursday, department officials wrote that “D.H.S. is considering separating family units, placing the adults in adult detention, and placing the minors under the age of 18 in the custody” of the Department of Health and Human Services “as unaccompanied alien children.” That prompted Mr. Merkley to tell Mr. Wray, “Compelling new evidence has emerged revealing that high-level Department of Homeland Security officials were secretly and actively developing a new policy and legal framework for separating families as far back as December 2017.” A spokeswoman for the department denied that the agency ever had such a policy. “What this predecisional, predeliberative memo — as well as previously leaked predecisional, predeliberative documents — shows is that the secretary was provided a menu of options to prevent the humanitarian crisis we predicted at that time and which has manifested itself today,” the spokeswoman, Katie Waldman, said in an email. “Secretary Nielsen specifically rejected a policy proposal to separate all family units in D.H.S. custody.” The federal government has reported that nearly 3,000 children have been separated from their parents under the zero-tolerance policy put in place by the Department of Homeland Security last year. But the policy could have affected thousands more, according to a report by government inspectors released this week.    ", "id": "5c4273fc3a125f5075c053c1", "date": "2019-01-19T00:48:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen Leaving Position: Trump", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, President Donald Trump said on Twitter on Sunday. The president said Kevin McAleenan, the current U.S. Customs and Border Protection commissioner, would become the acting DHS secretary.  (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Peter Cooney)", "id": "5caa76f949f0eacbf1f817a3", "date": "2019-04-07T22:15:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kirstjen Nielsen Enforced Cruelty at the Border. Her Replacement Could Be Worse.", "full_text": " The Department of Homeland Security is being cleaned out and remade in Stephen Miller’s image. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Time finally ran out for Kirstjen Nielsen, President Trump’s beleaguered secretary of homeland security. The terms of Ms. Nielsen’s departure are unclear. She met with the president on Sunday evening to discuss continuing problems at the southern border. At the conclusion of the meeting, Mr. Trump announced on Twitter that Ms. Nielsen “will be leaving her position” and he thanked her for her service, implying he had asked her to step down. Ms. Nielsen issued a formal letter of resignation, saying it was the “right time for me to step aside.” Considering the long-simmering tensions between the president and Ms. Nielsen, the most surprising thing about her departure may be that it didn’t happen months ago. She was said to have become increasingly insecure in her job in recent weeks, as Mr. Trump repeatedly railed about the chaos at the border and pushed for dramatic action, including reinstating his policy of separating migrant families at the border and closing legal ports of entry. The president grew impatient with Ms. Nielsen’s insistence that federal law and international obligations limited her actions. In recent days, including in the hours immediately after the secretary’s resignation, he repeatedly fumed that “our country is full.”  It’s no secret that Mr. Trump had a problem with Ms. Nielsen, whom he considered “weak” on matters of border security. The president and Stephen Miller, his hard-line immigration adviser, have long grumbled privately about the secretary’s insufficiently brutal approach to the surge in migrant families across the border. Last May, stories surfaced about Mr. Trump berating her in front of the entire cabinet for failing to stop the crossings.  In her letter released on Sunday, Ms. Nielsen noted, “For more than two years of service beginning during the Presidential Transition, I have worked tirelessly to advance the goals and missions of the Department.” This is hardly something to brag about. Whatever the secretary’s personal views, and no matter how impossible her job, she was the face of some of the administration’s most poorly conceived and gratuitously callous policies. At best, she was complicit and, yes, rather weak. Ms. Nielsen’s response to her boss’s displeasure and abuse was often both morally anemic and strategically incoherent. Last summer, as Republicans and Democrats — and much of the American public — protested the administration’s practice of tearing migrant children from their parents at the border, Ms. Nielsen rushed to defend the policy. Scratch that. She insisted, repeatedly and bizarrely, that the administration had no such policy, even as her agency was enforcing and justifying it.  “We do not have a policy of separating families at the border,” she said on Twitter in June. “Period.” She repeated as much to Congress as recently as March.  But the grim repercussions of this nonpolicy are still being felt. Just on Friday, in a court filing, federal officials said it could take up to two years to identify possibly thousands of migrant children taken from their families beginning in July 2017. Not that immigration was the only issue on which Ms. Nielsen floundered. On the critical question of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 elections, she was even less lucid. At times, she seemed to support the intelligence community’s findings that the Kremlin had been up to no good. Other times, she supported the view that Russia had not favored Mr. Trump in the election. Her every utterance seemed intended to obfuscate rather than to clarify. Ms. Nielsen’s departure is part of a broader purging in her department. Two days before meeting with the secretary, the president withdrew his nomination for the next head of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, saying that he wanted to go in a “tougher direction.” On Monday, the White House confirmed that Randolph Alles, the head of the Secret Service, was on his way out as well. The general counsel for Homeland Security, John Mitnick, and the head of Citizenship and Immigration Services, L. Francis Cissna, are expected to soon follow.  For now, Ms. Nielsen’s acting replacement will be Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection. This leaves Homeland Security without a top official at either of its critical immigration agencies. It comes as the swell of migrant families across the border pushes the system toward collapse. Possible successors being discussed include Rick Perry, the secretary of energy, and Ken Cuccinelli, the former attorney general of Virginia. Whoever takes Ms. Nielsen’s place, it seems likely that greater influence will be exerted by Mr. Miller, who inspires and reinforces Mr. Trump’s harshest impulses on immigrants and immigration. As the president becomes increasingly agitated about the border situation, Mr. Miller is said to be aggressively pushing to stock the administration with like-minded hard-liners. In addition to being a longtime critic of Ms. Nielsen, Mr. Miller is thought to have played a role in the withdrawal of the nomination of Ron Vitiello to lead ICE and the impending departure of Mr. Cissna.  The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, said of Ms. Nielsen’s departure, “It is deeply alarming that the Trump administration official who put children in cages is reportedly resigning because she is not extreme enough for the White House’s liking.” The plan is for Ms. Nielsen to continue through Wednesday to help with an “orderly transition.”  “I share the president’s goal of securing the border,” she said Monday morning. “I will continue to support all efforts to address the humanitarian and security crisis on the border.” If Ms. Nielsen is inclined to perform one last act of public service, she should come clean about the costs of the policies she enforced over the past year and a half, not only to the desperate migrants seeking a better life in the United States, but also to the thousands of employees of her department charged with carrying out an inhumane and ineffective agenda.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5caaaa9f49f0eacbf1f817fb", "date": "2019-04-08T01:56:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kirstjen Nielsen Resigns as Trump’s Homeland Security Secretary", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, resigned on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure in charge of the border security agency that had made her the target of the president’s criticism. “I have determined that it is the right time for me to step aside,” Ms. Nielsen said in a resignation letter. “I hope that the next secretary will have the support of Congress and the courts in fixing the laws which have impeded our ability to fully secure America’s borders and which have contributed to discord in our nation’s discourse.” Ms. Nielsen had requested the meeting to plan “a way forward” at the border, in part thinking she could have a reasoned conversation with Mr. Trump about the role, according to three people familiar with the meeting. She came prepared with a list of things that needed to change to improve the relationship with the president. Mr. Trump in recent weeks had asked Ms. Nielsen to close the ports of entry along the border and to stop accepting asylum seekers, which Ms. Nielsen found ineffective and inappropriate. While the 30-minute meeting was cordial, Mr. Trump was determined to ask for her resignation. After the meeting, she submitted it. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Jessica Cheung and Eric Krupke, and edited by Paige Cowett As homeland security secretary, she enacted and publicly defended the family separation policy. In President Trump’s eyes, she didn’t go far enough. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The secretary of homeland security was forced out of her job, even after carrying out and defending President Trump’s most restrictive immigration policies. Why that wasn’t enough. It’s Tuesday, April 9. Caitlin, describe what happened over the weekend. caitlin dickerson So on Sunday, Kirstjen Nielsen, who’s the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security — she’s the nation’s highest-ranking immigration officer — she goes to the White House for an unscheduled meeting with President Trump. michael barbaro Caitlin Dickerson covers immigration for The Times. caitlin dickerson And he, in recent weeks, has been very riled up publicly over an increasing number of people crossing the border, especially families who seek asylum who have legal protections that mean they have to be allowed into the country. So the secretary arrives at her meeting with a list of ideas for how to address this problem, and she thinks she and the president are going to come up with a way forward. But instead, a few hours later, the president sends a tweet announcing that she will be leaving her job. archived recording 1 Breaking news here on CNN. From the White House, the secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen, has resigned. archived recording 2 President Trump made the announcement via Twitter. archived recording 3 In a tweet, the president said, quote, “Secretary of homeland security Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, and I would like to thank her for her service.” archived recording 4 So it appears that the president is swinging the revolving door yet again, trying to install new people in his administration to carry out his bidding. michael barbaro That sounds like a meeting that went very poorly for the secretary. caitlin dickerson Clearly, they were not able to come up with a solution that both could agree on. michael barbaro And by tweeting her resignation, I think what we’re politely suggesting is that he fired her. caitlin dickerson Fired her. Yes, exactly. michael barbaro So what is the history between President Trump and Secretary Nielsen? caitlin dickerson So Secretary Nielsen takes her job at the end of 2017. She’s replacing her former boss, John Kelly, who went to be President Trump’s chief of staff. And she takes on this role as basically the person who has to approve any new policy that’s going to be introduced along the border. And it’s at this period of time when, I think, the President is settling into his role. He’s fired up about really coming up with some hard evidence that he can point to ahead of the midterm elections, for example, and say, look, I’m keeping my campaign promises, and I’m lowering immigration really dramatically. So right away, she’s faced with aggressive ideas for how to prevent people from coming to the United States, and the first one is family separation. michael barbaro And what do we know about how Nielsen responds to that very controversial policy when it is first introduced to her? caitlin dickerson She slow-walks it. We reported in December of 2017 that a family separation policy had reached her desk for that final signature, and it took her four months to approve it, during which time she and President Trump clashed quite a bit. She had questions about the legality of it. She had questions about the practicality and how the public was going to respond. And she had just a lot of reservations about moving forward. But ultimately, she agreed, and the policy was introduced in a formal way in April. archived recording 1 Quit separating the kids! They’re separating the children. Mr. President, don’t you have kids? Don’t you have kids, Mr. President? archived recording 2 I don’t believe in this. This is not America. This is not our country. This is not what we should be doing. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) This administration did not create a policy of separating families at the border. archived recording Shame on everybody that separates children and allows them to stay at the other side of the border, fearing death, and allow the secretary to come here and lie. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) Calling me a liar are fighting words. I’m not a liar. We’ve never had a policy for family separation. And let’s be clear — if an American were to commit a crime anywhere in the United States, they would go to jail, and they would be separated from their family. This is not a controversial idea. caitlin dickerson Internally, she’s, if not resisting, she’s certainly questioning and slowing down a lot of these policies. And then, externally, to the public, she’s having to defend them and really look like the face of them, and that ends up being something that she does actually over and over again in her job. michael barbaro And remind us what ends up happening to the family separation policy. caitlin dickerson So President Trump stopped the practice himself by signing an executive order. archived recording (donald trump) I consider it to be a very important executive order. It’s about keeping families together. caitlin dickerson But it didn’t matter, because a few days later, a federal judge intervened, deemed the practice unconstitutional, and he didn’t stop there. He said that — archived recording Families who have been separated as a result of the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy be reunited within 30 days. The order says kids under 5 must be back with their parents within 14 days from now. caitlin dickerson So sort of a resounding disavowal of this policy. michael barbaro caitlin dickerson Exactly. And so even though she’d pushed back against it, Secretary Nielsen ends up taking the blame. michael barbaro So what’s another example something that she expresses internal qualms about but then goes out and defends publicly? caitlin dickerson So one of the next policies to be introduced was an idea to limit asylum pretty significantly so that people could only apply if they showed up at a legal port of entry — whereas beforehand, people could and did very often show up anywhere along the border, present themselves to a border agency, ask for protection, and they were ushered into this legal process. The idea was to say, you can’t do that anymore. You have to show up at a specific office, which is, of course, a pretty tall order for somebody who’s coming from Central America with maybe a cell phone, maybe not, not a whole lot of resources. They don’t always know exactly where these offices exist. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) You do not need to break the law of this country by entering illegally to claim asylum. If you are seeking asylum, go to a port of entry. caitlin dickerson But as Nielsen pointed out to the president, it was very hard to justify, because immigration law explicitly says that you can request asylum regardless of where you enter. michael barbaro So again, Nielsen is saying inside the White House, hey, this might not be legal. I have reservations about it. But it nevertheless gets implemented. And as you’ve said, she’s the decider. So she signs off on it. caitlin dickerson Exactly. And it’s important to point out that when Nielsen pushed back against President Trump, it wasn’t a reflection of her being a liberal on immigration or having a more sympathetic view toward asylum seekers. She just happened to be the face of an entire agency full of people who work in immigration enforcement but who still made clear to her that there were going to be legal and logistical roadblocks to putting these ideas into place. michael barbaro And what happens to that port of entry policy that would limit the number of locations that people can apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson Very quickly after, it’s blocked by federal courts, and it remains that way. archived recording A district court ruled that the ban conflicts with immigration law. caitlin dickerson So this was the executive branch trying to very clearly contradict laws that were approved by the legislative branch. archived recording And now the Supreme Court has refused to step in to unblock the ban. michael barbaro So her legal reservations are well-founded. In other words, her advice to the president is correct, even if it’s ignored. caitlin dickerson That’s right. Her analysis is sound, because each time she is pushed back, she’s been right. And these ideas have been blocked. michael barbaro Do any of these policies that we’re describing — family separation, limiting the locations at which people can seek asylum — do any of them succeed in curbing the flow of migrants, even for the very short period of time that they’re in place before they are legally challenged? caitlin dickerson They don’t. archived recording New numbers show a 400 percent — 4-0-0, that is — 400 percent increase over just last year. caitlin dickerson Last October, we saw a record number of families seek asylum in the United States. This is after family separation is introduced. And every month since then, the numbers have gotten even higher. archived recording C.B.P. officials say Border Patrol agents are on pace for apprehensions and encounters with more than 100,000 migrants in March. michael barbaro So not only are these policies being blocked in court, for the very short bit of time that they were ever in place, they’re not doing their job of limiting the flow of migrants. caitlin dickerson They’re not. The numbers keep going up. And some people would argue that maybe the policies weren’t left in place for long enough to show any concrete outcome, and we can’t know that for sure. But what we do know is that these policies that Nielsen was pushing back on, saying they’re not going to work, didn’t work. And the numbers have continued to rise. michael barbaro And so what does that do to the president’s relationship to Nielsen? She’s in a sense being vindicated, but the problem she’s there to solve is only getting worse. caitlin dickerson She’s simultaneously sort of being vindicated if you look at it from a legal standpoint, but from a relationship standpoint, she’s the face, in President Trump’s eyes, of these failures. archived recording 1 Kirstjen Nielsen appears to be on shaky ground. That’s according to a New York Times report. Nielsen told colleagues that she was close to resigning Wednesday after being berated by the president in front of the entire cabinet. archived recording 2 Nothing sets him off more than immigration, and I’m told that meeting on Wednesday in the cabinet room was very heated, was incredibly heated. She spoke back to him about it, tried to defend herself. caitlin dickerson So it’s in this context of the policies that are being introduced being blocked in the courts, the number of people crossing the border rising, and Trump’s relationship with Secretary Nielsen falling apart that he comes up with his most aggressive idea yet. archived recording Another day, another threat from President Trump, and today, he is threatening to shut down the southern border. caitlin dickerson Where he wants to completely seal the border, 100 percent. Not let anybody come into the U.S. archived recording (donald trump) And if they don’t stop them, we’re closing the border. We’ll close it, and we’ll keep it closed for a long time. I’m not playing games. michael barbaro And how exactly would that work? caitlin dickerson Well, we shouldn’t assume that the president had any particular policy in his mind when he tweeted that he wanted to seal the border. We can assume, though, that he wasn’t talking about, for example, cargo moving back and forth or people with actual visas and permission to come into the United States, but really that he’s talking about shutting down asylum and shutting down the ability of people who don’t previously have permission to come into the United States. And the policy that we know has come closest to achieving that goal, one that’s been kicking around in Washington for some months now, would be to get rid of asylum as we know it. It would no longer allow anyone to apply for asylum in the United States. And instead, people who needed that status or wanted that status would have to stay in their home country, similar to the way that Syrian refugees apply to come to the United States — apply from home, wait many months, go through lots of vetting and background checks, and then only if they’re approved, they would be allowed to come here. michael barbaro And I guess, what could be a more extreme version of limiting asylum than literally telling people, you cannot come to this country and apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson I don’t think there is a more extreme version, because I think this idea means eliminating asylum. It goes away. michael barbaro And as best we understand it, what was Secretary Nielsen’s response to this idea? caitlin dickerson From what we know, it’s been very similar to the way she reacted to family separation, to that idea to significantly limit asylum to the ports of entry, which is that this is going to be challenged by the courts immediately. It’s going to be a huge lift to get a policy like this introduced, to work out the logistics, and all of it will be for naught, because it’ll be enjoined by the courts. And it’s that oppositional and resistant stance that she’s in when she walks into the White House for her meeting with the president. It’s unclear who threw up their hands first or second, or whether they both did it, but what we know is that the president did not leave her with an option, that he, at least, decided this isn’t going to work. You’re out. And she was by the end of that night. And so what that means is the homeland security secretary who oversaw some of the most controversial and aggressive immigration policies this country has ever seen — even she wasn’t aggressive enough for President Trump. And so now she’s gone, and he’s looking for a replacement who will go even further. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So Caitlin, who is the president turning to to replace Nielsen as he looks for somebody to go further than she was willing to go? caitlin dickerson He’s turning to Kevin McAleenan, who’s currently the head of United States Customs and Border Protection. That’s the agency that oversees both the customs officers who you meet at the airport when you’ve gone on vacation abroad and then the Border Patrol. Those are the police, the boots on the ground along the border. And McAleenan is known as sort of a policy wonk, a really smart and reasonable guy who’s willing to work with Democrats, and somebody who served under President Obama as well. He’s got more than 10 years of experience at the agency. People know him as this reasonable guy. But when you dig a little bit deeper, McAleenan was inspired to get into homeland security work right after 9/11. And at C.B.P., especially most recently when he was overseeing this agency, it really became known as the sort of policy engine with him at the center of it coming up with ways to turn President Trump’s ideas into actual policies that could be carried out. If D.H.S. is this agency run out of Washington that’s overseeing all of this work, it was McAleenan’s staff members that were actually physically taking children away from their parents, that were physically turning asylum seekers away at the border or telling them to go elsewhere or to wait in line. So now he’s moving into this role where he’s got even more power, but I think we can expect that he’ll continue to do what he was doing before, which was take President Trump’s ideas that are sort of extreme and that aren’t necessarily encumbered by the immigration laws, norms, history, and he’ll try to translate them into something that’s practical and that can be introduced on the ground. michael barbaro So even though he might seem moderate at first glance, he’s actually someone who the president trusts to put these more restrictive, maybe even extreme policies into practice. And he’s been involved in doing that already. Now he’s being elevated to do it at an even higher level. caitlin dickerson Exactly. michael barbaro And I guess that all makes sense. If Nielsen is seen as too reluctant to put these policies into practice, then the president would turn to somebody who is willing to do that. caitlin dickerson That’s right, who is willing to try. But remember that McAleenan is going to run up against the exact same legal framework and logistical challenges that anybody else in that role is going to. michael barbaro Right. So if these policies are going to run into legal trouble in the courts, regardless of who is leading the agency, what does it matter, in the end, if the leader of the Department of Homeland Security is gung-ho about the President’s policies or is reluctantly saying yes, as Nielsen was? caitlin dickerson I think you can look at that question a couple of different ways. On one hand, you’re right that it’s not going to make a huge difference who’s sitting in the office at the head of the Homeland Security Department, because no matter what they introduce, if it violates the immigration law, they’re going to wind up in court. But another way of looking at it is family separation only existed as an official sort of policy for what, 45 days under zero tolerance? Not a very long period of time before it had to end. But still, I don’t think that very many people are going to argue that family separation was a small thing or something that didn’t affect very many people. I mean, I think it had a huge impact. So I do think that if you have a hawk running the Homeland Security Department, even when they’re sort of encumbered by the existing legal framework, they can make some pretty big changes, even if, ultimately, those changes wind up in court. I think that Kevin McAleenan has two things going for him in President Trump’s eyes. The first, like we said, is that he knows the policies and he knows the situation on the ground like the back of his hand. And the second thing is that he’s shown a willingness to follow President Trump’s lead, and so he may be the person who’s best positioned to come up with the most legal ways to achieve President Trump’s goals. And even if the policies that he comes up with don’t remain in place in the long term, they might at least exist long enough to give President Trump something to point to and show his supporters when they ask, where are you on these campaign promises? Where are you on this idea of, if not sealing the border, significantly decreasing the number of immigrants coming to the United States? michael barbaro So even if these policies are ultimately blocked by the courts, it feels like it’s important to this president to have someone at the Department of Homeland Security who is willing to try them, and that may be enough. caitlin dickerson I think in President Trump’s heart of hearts, right, he would hope that he would find not only somebody who is willing to try but somebody who is going to succeed. He wants aggressive policies to be instituted in the long term. But I think it’s better in his mind than nothing to have somebody who’s willing to try. And as we know, politically, it’s better than nothing, because then the president can point to these policies that he tried to introduce, if only it wasn’t for the courts who had blocked him, or if only it wasn’t for Congress who blocked him. michael barbaro Right. My intention was there. Somebody else is at fault for it not working. caitlin dickerson Exactly. He has at least an attempt to meet these campaign promises to point to when voters ask, why haven’t you made a significant change? So I think that having a more aggressive leader in place who’s more willing to introduce these policies, when they get stuck in the courts, it allows Trump to blame the courts rather than his own administration for getting in his way. He can say, look, I tried, but these judges are blocking me, whereas it wasn’t just the judges blocking him with Secretary Nielsen. It was her, too. michael barbaro If Congress is not going to change the law, and I think the assumption is that they are not going to do that anytime soon when it comes to basic immigration law, is the president right to suggest that the current system is broken, and the only way to fix it is to test these new ideas, even if they push the boundaries of the law? caitlin dickerson I would say yes to the first part of your question. Most people agree that the system is broken. But when it comes to fixing the problem, what are you trying to fix? In the president’s mind, the problem is the vast number of people coming here to seek asylum. His idea of a fix would decrease that number. But other people see the problem as not that people are coming here to seek asylum at all but the ways that we’re dealing with them. We don’t have space to place people physically in custody when they enter. We don’t have judges to hear their cases for years and years. So if you see that as the problem, then — michael barbaro He’s not really addressing those. caitlin dickerson He’s not addressing those problems, and I think that’s because a lot of people who agree with the president are concerned that if we come up with better systems for processing asylum seekers — we make it more organized and efficient and, in some cases, comfortable — that all that will do is encourage more and more people to come. And again, if the numbers themselves are what you see as the problem, then making the system better only makes it worse. michael barbaro Caitlin, what does all of this tell us about where President Trump plans to go on immigration? caitlin dickerson I think it shows that President Trump is going to continue full steam ahead to achieve his immigration goals and that if there are people, even informed career officials, who want to stand in the way of that, they’re going to be pushed out, because he’s very committed to the goal of limiting the number of people who come to the border, regardless of the many legal challenges he’s already faced, those that are sure to come, the public reaction, all these other things notwithstanding. We’re not seeing any signs of slowing down. I think this week is actually an indicator of a ramping up of these goals. michael barbaro In other words, the gloves are coming off, even though, in a lot of people’s minds, they thought the gloves were already off. caitlin dickerson That’s right. It’s like another set of gloves are coming off. michael barbaro Caitlin, thank you very much. caitlin dickerson Thank you. michael barbaro On Monday, The Times reported that President Trump plans to push out more officials from the Department of Homeland Security, including the department’s general counsel and the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as he seeks to carry out his harder-line approach to immigration. A few hours later, in the latest legal setback to that approach, a federal judge blocked a Trump administration policy that required those seeking asylum to wait in Mexico rather than in the U.S. while their cases made their way through U.S. immigration court. The judge found that the policy violated federal law. Here’s what else you need to know today. archived recording (mike pompeo) Today, the United States is continuing to build its maximum pressure campaign against the Iranian regime. I am announcing our intent to designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, including its Quds Force, as a foreign terrorist organization in accordance with Section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. michael barbaro On Monday, the Trump administration said that it was designating a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time that the U.S. has classified part of any country’s government as such a threat. archived recording (mike pompeo) We’re doing it because the Iranian regime’s use of terrorism as a tool of statecraft makes it fundamentally different from any other government. michael barbaro The move was debated at the highest levels of the administration, with top officials at the Defense Department and the C.I.A. opposing the designation, arguing it could justify Iranian attacks against the U.S. and its allies. But the president’s national security adviser, John Bolton, and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, advocated for the decision, arguing the designation would further isolate Iran by discouraging businesses from working with its military. archived recording (mike pompeo) This historic step will deprive the world’s leading state sponsor of terror the financial means to spread misery and death around the world. michael barbaro In response, Iran’s government said it was designating the U.S. Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, as a terrorist organization as well. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. The move comes just two days after Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly expressed anger at a rise in migrants at the southwestern border, withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement because he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction. Mr. Trump has ratcheted up his anti-immigration message in recent months as he seeks to galvanize supporters before the 2020 election, shutting down the government and then declaring a national emergency to secure funding to build a border wall, cutting aid to Central American countries and repeatedly denouncing what he believes is a crisis of migrants trying to enter the country. He took aim again Sunday night after announcing Ms. Nielsen’s departure, tweeting, “Our Country is FULL!” Ms. Nielsen said she planned “to stay on as secretary through Wednesday” in order “to assist with an orderly transition.” The abruptness was unusual because the Department of Homeland Security currently does not have a deputy secretary, who would normally take the reins. The president said in a tweet that Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, would take over as the acting replacement for Ms. Nielsen, who became the sixth secretary to lead the agency in late 2017. But by law, the under secretary for management, Claire Grady, who is currently serving as acting deputy secretary, is next in line to be acting secretary. The White House will have to fire her to make Mr. McAleenan acting secretary, people familiar with the transition said. Ms. Grady has told colleagues that she has no intention of resigning to make way for Mr. McAleenan. [Read about Kevin McAleenan, the new acting homeland security secretary.] Among the possible replacements for Ms. Nielsen in the long term is Ken Cuccinelli, the former Virginia attorney general who is a favorite among conservative activists and who fits the profile that Mr. Trump wants the next homeland secretary to have, people familiar with the discussions said. Ms. Nielsen had been pressured by Mr. Trump to be more aggressive in stemming the influx of migrant crossings at the border, people familiar with their discussions in recent months said. Her entire time in the job was spent batting back suspicion from the president, even as he told people he liked how she performed on television and enjoyed dealing with her personally. He initially was skeptical because of Ms. Nielsen’s previous service in the George W. Bush administration, and then because she was close to John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff. In her letter resigning as secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen wrote: “We have taken unprecedented action to protect Americans. We have implemented historic efforts to defend our borders, combat illegal immigration, obstruct the inflow of drugs, and uphold our laws and values.” The president called Ms. Nielsen at home early in the mornings to demand that she take action to stop migrants from entering the country, including doing things that were clearly illegal, such as blocking all migrants from seeking asylum. She repeatedly noted the limitations imposed on her department by federal laws, court settlements and international obligations. Those responses only infuriated Mr. Trump further. The president’s fury erupted in the spring of 2018 as Ms. Nielsen hesitated for weeks about whether to sign a memo ordering the routine separation of migrant children from their families so that the parents could be detained. In a cabinet meeting surrounded by her peers, Mr. Trump castigated her repeatedly, leading her to draft a resignation letter and to tell colleagues that there was no reason for her to lead the department any longer. By the end of the week, she had reconsidered and remained in her position, becoming an increasingly fierce supporter of his policies, including the family separations. Mr. Trump and Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, have privately but regularly complained about Ms. Nielsen. Lou Dobbs, a Fox News host who is one of the president’s favorite sounding boards, has also encouraged Mr. Trump’s negative views of her handling of the migrant crisis. Ms. Nielsen lost a powerful protector when Mr. Kelly, her mentor, left his job as White House chief of staff at the beginning of the year. Mr. Kelly was the Trump administration’s first homeland security secretary and lobbied for Ms. Nielsen to replace him. Multiple White House officials said she had grown deeply paranoid in recent months, after numerous stories about her job being on the line. She also had supported the Immigration and Customs Enforcement nominee Mr. Trump withdrew, Ronald D. Vitiello, and her support for him was described as problematic for her with the president. Mr. Trump felt Mr. Vitiello did not favor closing the border, as the president threatened again to do in a tweet on Sunday night. Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. In early 2019, as the number of migrant families from Central American countries surged, the president’s fury at Ms. Nielsen did, too. He repeatedly demanded that she cut off foreign aid to Central American countries even though the funding was the responsibility of the State Department. She repeatedly deflected his demands. One day after Ms. Nielsen traveled to Honduras to sign a regional compact with officials from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, Mr. Trump cut State Department funding for the countries. And in recent days, the president made public moves to undercut her authority, leaking news that he might nominate an “immigration czar” to assume oversight of the issue at the heart of Ms. Nielsen’s department. Still, Ms. Nielsen embraced the president’s “crisis” language as apprehensions of migrants at the border shot up to thousands per day. On Friday, Mr. Trump traveled with Ms. Nielsen and Mr. McAleenan to Calexico, Calif., to highlight the issue. While the number of border crossings is not as high as in the early 2000s, the demographic of migrants has shifted largely from individual Mexicans looking for jobs — who could easily be deported — to Central American families, overwhelming detention facilities and prompting mass releases of migrants into cities along the border. Ms. Nielsen estimated last month that border officials had stopped as many as 100,000 migrants in March. But despite the trip and several stories about how much better her relationship with Mr. Trump was, Ms. Nielsen never learned how to manage him, people familiar with their discussions said. He often felt lectured to by Ms. Nielsen, the people familiar with the discussions said. And his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was not an admirer of Ms. Nielsen, several administration officials said. That came to a head recently as Mr. Kushner had inserted himself into immigration discussions. While Mr. Trump often blamed Ms. Nielsen for the surge in migrant crossings, she will be remembered for leading the department during the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the southwestern border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families. An intense backlash ensued, and the Department of Homeland Security was unprepared to deal with separating nearly 3,000 children from their parents. “Hampered by misstep after misstep, Kirstjen Nielsen’s tenure at the Department of Homeland Security was a disaster from the start,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat and the chairman of the House’s committee on Homeland Security. “It is clearer now than ever that the Trump administration’s border security and immigration policies — that she enacted and helped craft — have been an abysmal failure and have helped create the humanitarian crisis at the border.” Mr. Trump eventually moved to halt the family separations, though the government struggled in some cases to reunite those it had already separated. Married to a Salvadoran immigrant, Mr. McAleenan is a lawyer who wrote an honors thesis at Amherst College on marriage equality and applied at the F.B.I. after the Sept. 11 attacks. Described by colleagues as a savvy political operator, Mr. McAleenan worked cooperatively with Obama administration officials but later embraced Mr. Trump’s agenda, which included unshackling Border Patrol agents from restrictions that the previous administration had imposed. Mr. McAleenan was also one of three Department of Homeland Security officials who had urged Ms. Nielsen to sign the memo authorizing the routine separation of migrant families at the border. The department, which has a budget of more than $40 billion and more than 240,000 employees, is an amalgam of 22 government agencies that was created after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It is responsible for everything from protecting the nation from cyberattacks to responding to natural disasters. At 46, Ms. Nielsen was the youngest person to lead the sprawling department, and an unlikely choice for the job. In the months immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, she helped set up the Transportation Security Administration, now an agency within the department. She also worked as a special assistant to President George W. Bush on natural disaster response while serving on the White House Homeland Security Council. When Mr. Trump moved Mr. Kelly to the White House in July 2017, Ms. Nielsen moved with him. As the principal deputy chief of staff, she enforced Mr. Kelly’s attempts to regulate access to Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, including the president’s schedule — irritating White House staff members, who complained she was uncompromising. Mr. Kelly later backed Ms. Nielsen to succeed him at the Homeland Security Department, though she was criticized as too inexperienced for the job by Democrats and anti-immigration groups. Mr. Trump, however, said she was “ready on Day 1.” “There will be no on-the-job training for Kirstjen,” Mr. Trump said in October 2017, announcing her nomination for the post. But by the following spring, Ms. Nielsen was telling associates she was miserable in the job. Maggie Haberman reported from New York, and Michael D. Shear from San Diego. Annie Karni and Noah Weiland contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial Board  ", "id": "5caa74ac49f0eacbf1f8179d", "date": "2019-04-07T22:06:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kirstjen Nielsen, Israel, N.C.A.A. Basketball: Your Monday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering the shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security, the Israeli elections on Tuesday and the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship. Kirstjen Nielsen stepped down on Sunday after a rocky tenure in which she supported President Trump’s hard-line immigration policies even as he blamed her for the increased number of migrants illegally entering the U.S. (Read her resignation letter.) After assuming the post in late 2017, Ms. Nielsen led the department during the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the Mexican border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families. What’s next: Mr. Trump named Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, as acting secretary. In announcing a recent spike in the number of illegal border crossings, Mr. McAleenan said last month, “This is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis.” Catch up: On Friday, Mr. Trump withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Ronald Vitiello, saying he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction. Fighting for survival before parliamentary elections, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu unexpectedly promised over the weekend to begin extending sovereignty over the West Bank if he is re-elected. The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians, who view the area as the possible site of a future Palestinian state. Mr. Netanyahu’s major rival, the former army chief Benny Gantz, and analysts dismissed the plan as a last-ditch effort to rally Mr. Netanyahu’s right-wing base. Explainer: Mr. Netanyahu is one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, but he is facing his strongest challenge in years from Mr. Gantz and the leaders of a centrist alliance. Here’s a guide to Tuesday’s voting.  Antibiotics, which have been credited with saving tens of millions of lives, have never been more accessible to the poor, thanks largely to the mass production of generics in China and India. Across much of the developing world, a few dollars will buy drugs like amoxicillin, which treats a broad range of infections. But the increasingly available drugs are losing their ability to kill the germs they were designed to cure. Poverty is a huge and largely unappreciated driver of antibiotic resistance, which is often viewed as a problem in rich countries. “We are quickly running out of treatment options,” a researcher in Kenya said. “If we don’t get a handle on the problem, I fear for the future.” Another angle: A fungus called Candida auris preys on people with weakened immune systems, and it is quietly spreading across the globe. It adds a frightening new dimension to the threat posed by the overuse of antibiotics. Jake Orta lives three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million home in San Francisco. A military veteran who now lives in government-subsidized housing, Mr. Orta is part of an underground economy, scavenging through others’ trash. Mr. Orta sells what he retrieves around town and says his goal is to earn around $30 to $40 a day. Our reporter, who followed Mr. Orta through the alleys of San Francisco, offers a snapshot of the extremes of American capitalism. Quotable: “You’ve got more and more tech people here and this city is moving faster and faster,” said a spokesman for a contractor that collects San Francisco’s garbage. “These people have short attention spans. Some discard items that ought to be repurposed.” On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section published their collaboration. The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women, and the city above, Choloma, is one of the most dangerous. Domestic violence is common, and many women are killed by drug cartels and gangs, often in ways intended to spread terror.  Battle in Libya: The U.S. military evacuated its small contingent of troops from the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as rival militias fought to stop an aspiring strongman from taking control of the city. Internet regulation: Britain has proposed sweeping government powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information, and harmful material aimed at children. The plan announced today would be one of the most aggressive to rein in corrosive online content. Democrats and the death penalty: After California’s governor issued a moratorium on executions, Democratic presidential candidates have embraced abolition. It represents a generational shift for the party but follows a decades-long trend in declining public support for capital punishment. Snapshot: Above, Baylor won its third N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship on Sunday, defeating Notre Dame, 82-81. Texas Tech and Virginia play for the men’s title tonight. Theater review: A revival of the 1943 musical “Oklahoma!” opened at the Circle in the Square Theater in Manhattan on Sunday. Our critic calls it “the coolest new show on Broadway.” What we’re reading: This first-person piece in The Cut. John Schwartz, a climate reporter, recommends it. “Lizzie O’Leary, one of my journalism heroes, recently resurfaced this 2017 essay about the sexual harassment she’s experienced,” he says. “I’m thinking maybe I should read it at least once a year, and maybe you should, too.” Cook: This easy pie uses crumbled gingerbread-like speculoos cookies in its crust, and a cookie butter spread on top. Listen: Khalid broke out in 2017 with “American Teen.” On his second full album, he suspends his demons in melodies and rhythms that take cues from R&B’s past. Watch: Did you watch the “Killing Eve” Season 2 premiere? Check out some of the creators’ influences, including a YouTube video, a podcast and a viral ad. Read:  Here’s what to read and watch about Kurt Cobain, the Nirvana frontman and grunge icon who killed himself 25 years ago. Smarter Living: Smartphones tend to occupy hours, but there are ways to give your fingers a break, such as setting up text abbreviations to eliminate repetitive typing. Voice assistants have also become more reliable. Set your alarm by saying, “Wake me at 7:30 a.m.” or say, “Do not disturb” as you enter a movie theater or a meeting. We also have advice about how to deal with jerks, without being one. Latin American ministers are descending today on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis. The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt in the region, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out? Not exactly. The city with the largest population is Mexico City. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasília is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more common than English. A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was hammered out in Havana, which has longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government. While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels and Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own. Oh, what a beautiful mornin’. Hope everything goes your way. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something raised during a toast (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Privacy Project is a new, limited-run newsletter from The Times, exploring what’s at stake as technology blurs the lines between public and private. Sign up here.  Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. He is the country’s head of government but not its head of state; that’s President Reuven Rivlin. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5cab15d649f0eacbf1f818f2", "date": "2019-04-08T09:33:48+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kirstjen Nielsen Is the Latest Trump Official to Meet an Unceremonious End", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — In recent months, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, had become a regular presence eating dinner at the Trump International Hotel. She had been heckled and booed when dining out after becoming the face of some of President Trump’s most hard-line immigration policies, like family separations, and her affinity for the hotel, a gathering place for the president’s supporters, seemed like a sign that she felt safer on the inside. But her status inside the White House, where she was subject to dressing-downs from Mr. Trump during cabinet meetings and constant criticism by the president, was not much more secure. So when Ms. Nielsen went to the White House on Sunday night to meet with the president to discuss some grievances, she was also prepared to avoid a messy end by letting Mr. Trump, who is known for not personally firing people, off the hook. After Mr. Trump made it clear that he was looking for a change, Ms. Nielsen told him she would resign, ridding him of a cabinet secretary who had long disappointed him. Ms. Nielsen’s departure, announced Sunday night, was abrupt but hardly unforeseen, the latest in a long and growing conga line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously because of their own frustrations with the president, or because of the president’s obvious disappointment in them. Usually, it is both. Mr. Trump has ripped into Ms. Nielsen, holding her personally responsible for the uptick in crossings at the southwestern border. And Ms. Nielsen wanted to tell Mr. Trump that she was upset not to have been notified beforehand about his sudden withdrawal of Ron Vitiello, the nominee to serve as Immigration and Customs Enforcement director, and that she was frustrated at being pulled from security meetings in Europe last week and ordered to appear by the president’s side on a trip to the border, according to someone close to Ms. Nielsen. The end for Ms. Nielsen was something that has become familiar in the Trump administration: a high-ranking official like Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, or Rex Tillerson, the former secretary of state, leaving with a reputation in need of rehabilitation. “Normally, people just resign,” said Ronald A. Klain, who served as chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “The president sends word through an intermediary that he’s unhappy, and you resign. The president says something nice about them and then they leave. “But here, quitting isn’t good enough.” Some exits have been more humiliating than others. Since the departure of Mr. Tillerson, Mr. Trump has referred to him as “dumb as a rock” and “lazy as hell.” After calling the departure of his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a “retirement” and praising his service, Mr. Trump turned on him once he understood that the resignation was an affront to him. “What’s he done for me?” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Mattis. “How had he done in Afghanistan? Not too good.” After years of haranguing Mr. Sessions in public and in private, Mr. Trump sent John F. Kelly, his former chief of staff, to demand his resignation in November, and he has not let up on him since he left office. In a speech in front of the Conservative Political Action Conference last month, Mr. Trump mimicked Mr. Sessions’s southern accent while discussing his decision to recuse himself from the special counsel’s investigation into Russian meddling during the 2016 campaign. Mr. Kelly later suffered his own ignoble end. After he and Mr. Trump ironed out a departure plan at the end of last year, Mr. Kelly planned to make his own announcement at a senior staff dinner at the White House. But the president chose to break the news first, telling reporters that Mr. Kelly would be departing at the end of December. Although all involved tried to put the best face on the Sunday meeting between Mr. Trump and Ms. Nielsen — someone familiar with it said the president had even asked her if she would want to return in another position — the two competed afterward for how to spin its contents. Within minutes of the meeting’s end, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that Ms. Nielsen was “leaving her position,” making it sound as if she was the latest cabinet secretary he had ousted online. Ms. Nielsen then posted her resignation letter on Twitter, notably leaving out any mention or praise for Mr. Trump. Mr. Trump has yet to criticize her publicly since. But Ms. Nielsen has already absorbed more than her share of criticism for her role in implementing the president’s policies. Immigration and civil rights groups have been pressuring Fortune 500 companies to blacklist former Trump officials like Ms. Nielsen, who have promoted his immigration policies, writing that they “should not be allowed to seek refuge in your boardrooms or corner offices.” Many other former administration officials have not experienced the post-White House career bump that has become part of the payoff for putting in grueling hours on government salaries. With a few exceptions, like the smooth send-off for Nikki R. Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations, and a glowing farewell to Linda McMahon, the former administrator of the Small Business Administration, Mr. Trump’s top aides often find themselves damaged by their former boss in real time, or on delay. Even those who have managed to stay in Mr. Trump’s favor, like Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, have a sense of gallows humor about what might ultimately befall them. “I’ll be there until he tweets me out of the office,” Mr. Pompeo recently joked at an event in his home state of Kansas, when asked about his future in politics. For her part, Ms. Nielsen appears to be intent on trying to minimize the damage to her reputation, with surrogates out defending her record. “The so-called immigration hard-liners have flailed about since the beginning of the administration, giving bad advice to the president and misdirecting resources toward the wrong solutions to the wrong problems,” said Thad Bingel, who was a senior homeland security official in the Bush administration and served as an aide to Ms. Nielsen during her Senate confirmation. “They apparently don’t want anyone like a Secretary Nielsen or Secretary Kelly, who deals in reality, to tell them or the president any of this.”   ", "id": "5cabde3549f0eacbf1f81b65", "date": "2019-04-08T23:48:43+0000"}]