[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Where Beto O’Rourke Stands on the Issues", "full_text": " [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who just joined the Democratic presidential race, gained an instant following last year when he came within three points of unseating Senator Ted Cruz. But while he was able to stand out in his Senate campaign with a broadly liberal message and no signature policy issue, that broad message is not likely to be enough in a ballooning Democratic field. This time, the specifics are going to be crucial. Here’s a look at where Mr. O’Rourke stands on some major issues. As President Trump’s proposed border wall has become one of the biggest issues in American politics, Mr. O’Rourke has made immigration the centerpiece of his speeches. In addition to supporting the Dream Act and a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, he has called for the closing of private immigrant detention centers, denounced the “militarization” of immigration enforcement and spoken out against the wall. [Beto O’Rourke announces candidacy, joins field filled with committed progressives] “We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” he said at a rally in El Paso last month  held at the same time Mr. Trump was holding his own rally nearby. Far from extending a barrier across the entire border, he has said, he would like to remove the existing fencing in El Paso — one of the country’s largest border cities, and Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown. In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump held up El Paso as an example of the need for a wall, claiming that the city had been one of the most dangerous in the United States until a border fence was built there. But the crime rate in El Paso actually fell long before the fence was built and rose afterward, and Mr. O’Rourke is holding up the city as an example of the lack of need for a wall. Mr. O’Rourke arguably first made his name when, after the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando in 2016, he live-streamed the sit-in he and other Democratic representatives were holding on the House floor in support of stricter gun laws. The Republican-controlled Congress did not pass any gun control legislation then, but Mr. O’Rourke continues to support similar policies, including universal background checks, magazine size limits and restrictions on some semiautomatic weapons. He also opposes concealed carry reciprocity, which would make concealed carry permits granted in any state valid nationwide, forcing states with strict licensing requirements to recognize permits from states with looser standards. It is one of the National Rifle Association’s legislative priorities. While Mr. O’Rourke supports universal health care — increasingly a litmus-test position for Democratic candidates — he hasn’t committed to a specific way to get there. During his Senate campaign, he suggested that universal health care could take the form of a single-payer system or “a dual system,” in which a government-run program would coexist with private insurance. He has given conflicting messages on the most prominent proposal, “Medicare for all.” In 2017, during his time in the House, he said unequivocally, “A single-payer ‘Medicare for all’ program is the best way to ensure all Americans get the health care they need.” But during his Senate campaign, he carefully avoided those words, calling instead for “universal, guaranteed, high-quality health care for all.” He does support expanding Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and has urged Texas to do so. Other points in his 2018 platform included allowing the government to negotiate prescription drug prices with manufacturers and creating incentives for insurers to participate in the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges. When it comes to proposals for mitigating climate change, opponents frequently cite the potential costs of those plans. But Mr. O’Rourke has emphasized the financial impact of climate change itself. Billions of dollars that are spent on steps like sea walls, which would be critical if climate change continues unchecked, is money not spent on other priorities, he noted at a town-hall event with Columbia University students last month. At that event, Mr. O’Rourke spoke positively about the Green New Deal, calling it technically and logistically doable. As for its political prospects, “I don’t know,” he said. “That’s up to all of us, right?” He supports the Paris climate accords, and has also made a point of emphasizing effects that climate change is having: more storms like Hurricane Harvey, for instance, which devastated Texas. Mr. O’Rourke emphasized criminal justice in his 2018 campaign, focusing in particular on racial and economic inequities. In an op-ed in The Houston Chronicle, he described his own criminal record — he was arrested once for attempted forcible entry and once for drunken driving when he was in his 20s; both charges were dismissed — and argued that his success since then had been possible because of his race and economic status. “The chance that I had, and which I have made the most of, is denied to too many of our fellow Texans, particularly those who don’t look like me or have access to the same opportunities that I did,” he wrote. He called for closing private and for-profit prisons, decriminalizing marijuana and expunging the records of people previously convicted of possessing it, eliminating mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent crimes, and reforming the bail system so people charged with misdemeanors would not be incarcerated because of their inability to pay. He also emphasized rehabilitation for offenders released from prison, including the restoration of voting rights. Currently, those rights vary drastically by state. Like many of the Democratic candidates, Mr. O’Rourke has criticized Mr. Trump’s trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs, which have hurt some farmers and blue-collar workers. In his Senate campaign, he emphasized the needs of farmers, calling for a stronger crop insurance program and federal investments in rural infrastructure, including high-speed internet, roads and schools. He has also drawn connections between agricultural policy and immigration policy, noting that immigrants — many of them undocumented — make up a large share of farm laborers. On that basis, he has cast immigration reform as an economic issue as well as a social one. “We should treat these individuals with dignity and respect,” he wrote on his website last year, “because they are a critical component of our agriculture communities.” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.   ", "id": "5c8a267e49f0eacbf105cfc4", "date": "2019-03-14T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke On the Road: An Annotated Travel Log", "full_text": " Mr. O’Rourke, considering a run for president, took to the road to find answers. And he wrote quite a bit about it. Beto O’Rourke does not know whether he wants to run for president. He does know where he thinks he’ll find the answer: behind the wheel. In a series of posts on Medium, Mr. O’Rourke has detailed his somewhat aimless recent travels — seeing sights, thinking thoughts, dining with strangers — in a confessional style uncommon among presidential contenders.  Supporters have cheered his transparency and willingness to appear vulnerable. Skeptics believe the entries have reinforced a caricature of Mr. O’Rourke as a politician with his head in the clouds. (“Skateboarding man-child,” the columnist George Will sniffed recently.) Below is his Medium post from Jan. 16, and an annotated look at what he might be trying to say: A lot of big trucks rolling down Pancake Blvd and there aren’t any sidewalks. Gloomy early morning sky in Liberal Kansas. Snow melt on the side of the road where I’m running. I find a vacant lot to cut through to another street, also busy and without sidewalks. I finally get to a smaller road that goes past a mobile home park, then a small subdivision, and out into corn fields to my right and empty fields to my left. Mr. O’Rourke is establishing his preferred visual quickly: He is on the road. It’s where he’s been most comfortable as a candidate, hitting each of Texas’s 254 counties during his 2018 Senate run and capturing minutiae — usually by live-stream, not blog. But the history goes deeper. “He loves him a road trip,” said an ex-girlfriend, Katherine Raymond, remembering a few from college.  I was in Tucumcari yesterday. Trying to learn more about the town that my great-grandparents lived in more than a hundred years ago. James O’Rourke, son of Irish immigrants, and Anna Lloyd who immigrated to the U.S. from Wales. According to the 1910 census they lived at 1710 Second Street. I stayed at the Motel Safari, one of these classic Route 66 motels. Mid-century everything. I talked to the owner for a bit. He moved from Tennessee and away from corporate life. Starting over.  It’s hard not to see parallels here to Mr. O’Rourke’s own past. His professional arc has frequently been an exercise in starting over: Adrift in New York City years after graduating college, he returned to El Paso. Restless in business, he tried politics. Unsatisfied with a safe House seat, he set off on a long-shot Senate bid.  Giving himself to this hotel that he bought a couple years back. Hasn’t taken a break in more than a year, but is going to close down for the month of February, spend some time back in Tennessee. Take a break, come back stronger.  Mr. O’Rourke is plainly trying to do the same. He has spoken often of the exhaustion that has lingered well after his Senate campaign ended. If he is to seek the presidency, now is the moment when he hopes to recharge. Ate at Del’s and as I was finishing my blackberry cobbler asked the waitress what I should see in Tucumcari. The murals, the sights on 66. And you should check out this lake, exactly 12 miles from Tucumcari on 54. The next morning I ran. Just a couple of miles. Down 66, then through neighborhoods, past the History Museum. My leg has really been bothering me since the campaign and so I had stopped running for a while. This was my first run in more than a month. Felt good, running in new shoes. [Read about Beto O’Rourke’s life in New York City as a young man] Have been stuck lately. In and out of a funk. My last day of work was January 2nd. It’s been more than twenty years since I was last not working. Maybe if I get moving, on the road, meet people, learn about what’s going on where they live, have some adventure, go where I don’t know and I’m not known, it’ll clear my head, reset, I’ll think new thoughts, break out of the loops I’ve been stuck in.  The subtext here is more like text: Mr. O’Rourke is, by his admission, in a bit of a rut. It’s an uncommon admission for someone weighing a White House run. After breakfast at a diner down from the Safari, I drove over to Mesalands Community College. Met this amazing young man named Dylan, originally from Washington state, who had traveled from Amarillo to Tucumcari carrying his belongings, water and food in a wheelbarrow. He’d seen the wind turbine that stands in front of Meslands, inquired within and soon enrolled. He’s now the president of the student body and was my guide for the morning. He introduced me to the instructors, the head of the wind energy club, and his fellow students. I learned about how they are learning. Had a chance to introduce myself, asked questions about the program they’re in, about Tucumcari, about where they’re originally from. About how what they’re doing fits into the larger picture — climate change, economic opportunity, infrastructure investment. How it fits into their picture — the job they’re looking for, the purpose they want, the opportunity that’s opened up for them. What it’s like to climb that high, to use a wrench for the first time in your life, to know that you’re on a track and that there’s a destination. A younger Mr. O’Rourke — and perhaps the present-day version — might envy the students’ sense of direction. Casting about for professional purpose after college, Mr. O’Rourke said he fell into the deepest depression of his life. Learned about pump storage, battery technology, the role that production tax credits have had in making New Mexico a leader in wind energy production. What do they make after graduation? Wind techs start off making $19–23/hr though not uncommon for some to make six figures within the first year. They graduate from the program and are hired. Students I met had traveled from throughout the southwest to come here. It’s a good program and leads to a solid, highly paid job. Everyone I met was proud. Really into what they were doing. The instructors, the staff, the students. Dylan came across as a born leader — confident, humble, thoughtful and full of purpose. Outside as we concluded the tour of the campus I looked up and imagined the courage it takes to climb out onto the face of these giant turbines, 250 feet up in the air. I said goodbye to Dylan, Jose, Brandon and the others.  As politicians go, Mr. O’Rourke is hardly unique in name-checking the locals he encounters. But he is among the more prolific. His town hall events last year frequently began with a lengthy recitation of people he met, where he’d met them and what he ate in the towns where he met them. I drove to 1710 Second Street. It’s now a First National Bank parking lot. Went to the Tucumcari library to see if I could find anything about James and Anna and what was going on in 1910. I didn’t, but saw a book the community had put together honoring those who were killed in World War II. At the reading table a group of older men were gathered, talking politics, in Spanish and in English. Seemed to be a regular get together. Those jokers in Washington D.C. Why didn’t Hillary do this? Or that? And Trump!  Mr. O’Rourke’s uncle remembered him once musing about how nice it would be to run a kind of gathering spot for political dialogue. “I want to have that burrito store,” the uncle, Brooks Williams, recalled Mr. O’Rourke saying once. “I want to have that place downtown where politicians come in and talk.” Drove out to the lake the waitress had told me about. Had it all to myself and some ducks. Found some crab claws. Maybe left by a bird. Walked out on a pier. Looked out, took some pictures. Leaned over, scooped up water and washed my face. Picked up beer cans that someone had left and were blown into the bushes. Later learned that it’s called Ute Lake. Formed by damming the Canadian River. Drove to Dalhart. Ate at the Grill. Was last there in August of 2017. Green chile cheeseburger. The table over asked if I was Beto. We talked about the campaign, about Dalhart. Talked about the livestock show they were on their way to. Dropped in at the VA clinic to say hello to the team there. I had visited in 2017 and they’d really made an impression on me. A staff of two and a visiting doctor take care of veterans from a huge area — including parts of Texas, Colorado, Oklahoma, Kansas and New Mexico. They seemed well and I got back in the truck, drove on, thinking about this story I’d read the night before about a veteran who comes back home by George Saunders. I read it twice, because it was so good and also because I wasn’t totally sure that I understood what happened at the end of it. Had so many thoughts and questions about it. Not completely spelled out, not neatly defined and tied up. Wanted to talk to someone about it and maybe understand it better from their perspective. I called Kate. She saw the ending differently than I did. More of an epiphany, less of a catastrophe. We were cut off by bad service and finished the conversation by text later in the day. In a recent interview, Mr. O’Rourke, an English major at Columbia University, detailed some pieces of literature that had made him think through the years: Greek tragedies (“the Greeks got me, man”), a Proust work (“man, it was powerful”) and the autobiography of Woody Guthrie. I got to Goodwell and right away saw the sign for Oklahoma Panhandle State University on my left. Turned in and met Teri who was waiting for me. I had decided that morning that I’d stop in Goodwell and we’d reached out to see if anyone would like to meet. She showed me to a lecture hall where there were about 40–50 students and faculty. We talked about everything and anything that anyone wanted to talk about. First question: Why in the world was I in Goodwell? It’s on 54, and that’s the road I started on in El Paso. Never been to Goodwell and wanted to see what was here and who lived here and what they were thinking. We talked about healthcare. About war and veterans. We talked about the border and immigration and Dreamers. We talked about corporate influence in politics, PACs and election finance. We talked about how hard it is to afford college. A recruiter for OPSU told me about the anxiety she encounters among kids in high school who don’t think they’ll ever have the money to come here. Listened to a young woman who is studying to be a teacher, wants to teach kindergarten. Asked me how we improve the chances for children of color who are suspended and expelled at up to five times the rate of white children as early as kindergarten. Someone else asked about the criminal justice system and the disproportionate number of black men and women behind bars. Critics of Mr. O’Rourke have at times rolled their eyes at his tendency to identify problems without always proposing firm solutions. This was rarely an issue in his Senate race, when Democrats were so united against his Republican opponent, Senator Ted Cruz, but could be a problem in a presidential primary. We talked about bringing the country together. Talked about national service, more young people finding purpose and common cause with their fellow Americans helping to rebuild the country — serving in whatever capacity helps to make this country stronger — infrastructure and public works, blazing and keeping trails into the wild, serving veterans and supporting teachers in the classroom. Being together, working together, for this country. A young woman asked, how do I make a difference in any of this? I said run for office. Hold town hall meetings. Bring people together, over coffee, over beer, ask your elected reps to show up and be part of the conversation. If they don’t, organize to get their attention. But whatever we do, let’s do it together. Listen to each other, be respectful, decent, kind. Invite those who don’t agree with you and try to see it their way for a minute. Make this democracy work by being as engaged as you possibly can. Otherwise we’ll lose it. Here is the core of Mr. O’Rourke’s appeal to supporters: His common-cause pitch is a temperamental (and generational) contrast to President Trump.  The meeting broke up, and I had a chance to talk to some of the people who stayed after. The gentleman who’d asked me about corporate money in politics introduced me to his wife. She was wearing a rainbow-colored wig. She explained her kids pick out the wig she’ll wear each day. She’s fighting cancer right now. She wanted to tell me about how fortunate she feels to be able to get the care that she needs. Because she has friends without insurance who go without, completely. And friends who have insurance but are fighting the insurance company at the same time they are fighting their cancer. Missing treatments as they fight for the care they’d been paying for in their premiums. I was moved that she’d tell me about her life, about how she feels about what’s happening to others. I could tell it wasn’t easy, maybe there was some hesitation in being so open. But I was glad that I could stay as long as anyone wanted to stay and talk. I left and it was dark. I drove to Liberal. Thought about continuing through to somewhere else but then was hungry and getting tired. Found a small motel, the Southwinds and pulled in. As he was taking care of another customer in front of me, the owner looked up and said “You look like the guy who ran for senate in Texas!” We talked for a while, he told me about his family and then called them in from a living room that was connected to the front office. His son was about to get on a train to go back to college in Kansas City. Come to KC, that’s where it’s at! His cousin was in from Sugar Land. I asked how much a room was and he said it was nothing. I thanked him and drove across the parking lot to park in front of room 29. I took my suitcase in, a clean, comfortable room. I would like Beto O’Rourke to negotiate all my future hotel stays. Matt Flegenheimer is a reporter covering national politics. He started at The Times in 2011 on the Metro desk covering transit, City Hall and campaigns.  @mattfleg ", "id": "5c5b5c403a125f5075c085fc", "date": "2019-02-06T21:52:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In Beto O’Rourke’s Announcement, His Wife’s Silence Stands Out", "full_text": " Beto O’Rourke, the charismatic Texas Democrat and former member of the House of Representatives, announced his presidential campaign in a video on Thursday. The three-minute clip quickly racked up thousands of shares, with some viewers excited by the prospect of his out-of-nowhere political rise. But others were put off by how his campaign deployed an age-old trope in American political theater — the silent, supportive wife.  Throughout the video, Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, Amy, sat quietly by her husband’s side, periodically grasping his hand as he outlined his campaign vision.  She occasionally smiled. And gazed. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has repeatedly cast his presidential bid as a sign of generational change, attempting to draw a contrast between himself and President Trump, who is 72.  But several authors, business leaders and scholars who focus on gender studies and discrimination said there was nothing new or progressive about the power dynamics projected in the video.  Throughout the 1980s, Nancy Reagan and Barbara Bush could be found next to their presidential husbands, often silently supporting them in big moments. More recently, buoyed by Hillary Clinton’s active role in her husband’s campaigns, many elected officials have leaned on their partners as high-profile surrogates.  In the current presidential race, Jane Sanders, wife of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, enjoyed a prominent behind-the-scenes role and gave a speech at his initial campaign rally. Connie Schultz, the newspaper columnist and wife of Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, has a fan base all her own, and was set to be one of the most popular figures on this year’s campaign trail before Mr. Brown declined to seek the Oval Office.  Mr. O’Rourke’s video struck some observers as especially out of place in a presidential race in which more Democratic women are running for president than ever before. Among several of these women, the husbands are rarely seen.  [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] On his first day campaigning, in a seemingly offhand comment, Mr. O’Rourke joked about his wife, saying she was raising their children, “sometimes with my help.” His comment elicited both laughter and derision. He later said he would not make that comment again, calling it “ham handed,” and also acknowledged that he had “enjoyed white privilege.”  This was not the first time Mr. O’Rourke had been accused of appearing to revel in his advantages as a white male in an increasingly diverse Democratic Party.  As he announced his campaign, complete with a profile in Vanity Fair in which he hinted he was “born to” run for president, detractors pointed out that prominent black Democrats who lost their 2018 campaigns — including Stacey Abrams in Georgia and Andrew Gillum in Florida — are not running for president.  For weeks before his presidential announcement, Mr. O’Rourke traveled across the country as he wrestled privately with whether to run and wrote musings on his Medium account. This drew jokes from several comedians and prominent social media voices, who compared his public agonizing with the stereotypical tendency for men to refuse to commit to relationships — particularly romantic ones.   Meghean Felling, Sergio Peçanha and Anjali Singhvi contributed. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.  @AsteadWesley ", "id": "5c8b69fd49f0eacbf105d37a", "date": "2019-03-15T09:00:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Enters the 2020 Presidential Campaign", "full_text": " [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] BURLINGTON, Iowa — Beto O’Rourke, the 46-year-old former Texas congressman whose near-miss Senate run last year propelled him to Democratic stardom, announced on Thursday that he was running for president, betting that a broad message of national unity and generational change will lift him above a slate of committed progressives offering big-ticket policy ideas. His decision jolts an early election season already stuffed with contenders, adding to the mix a relentless campaigner with a small-dollar fund-raising army, the performative instincts of a former punk rocker and a pro-immigrant vision to counteract President Trump’s. Yet Mr. O’Rourke also comes to the 2020 race with few notable legislative accomplishments after three terms in the House representing El Paso. And in a primary so far defined by bedrock policy positions, like the economic agendas of Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, Mr. O’Rourke enters without a signature proposal that might serve as the ideological anchor of his bid. “This moment of peril produces perhaps the greatest moment of promise for this country and for everyone inside it,’’ Mr. O’Rourke said in a video announcing his candidacy, released hours before a three-day tour of Iowa began on Thursday morning. Shortly after 8 a.m. Thursday, Mr. O’Rourke stepped into a coffee shop on Main Street in Keokuk and began introducing himself to a state he had never visited before. “Hey, nice to meet you. Beto O’Rourke,” he said, squeezing between news cameras and caffeine-seekers. “Good morning, good morning to you,” he said to people in the southeastern Iowa town of Keokuk — a county where Donald J. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by 16 percentage points in 2016 but where former President Barack Obama won four years earlier. Soon, he was standing on a chair taking questions, perched between paintings of flowers and musical instruments. “This is democracy,” he said. Mr. O’Rourke was planning on spending much of the next three days in similar communities across eastern Iowa, the historically Democratic part of the state where so many voters swung to Mr. Trump three years ago. Keeping with the do-it-yourself spirit of his Senate race, the new candidate did not release a full schedule of stops. Details of his appearances spread by social media and word of mouth. His Democratic rivals quickly sent notice, however, that they were not going to let his long-anticipated launch go unimpeded. Former Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio released a list of 30 new endorsements from Texas, including one state lawmaker from Mr. O’Rourke’s hometown. Mr. Sanders of Vermont, Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and Senator Kamala Harris of California emailed fund-raising appeals noting Mr. O’Rourke’s entry into the race — with Ms. Harris citing the historic diversity in the field, which she represents. And President Trump also swiftly weighed in, using a photo opportunity in the Oval Office to ridicule Mr. O’Rourke’s gesticulations. “I think he’s got a lot of hand movement,’’ the president said. “I’ve never seen so much hand movement. I said, ‘Is he crazy or is that just the way he acts?’’’ Unlike many of his 14 Democratic rivals for the nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has spent little time until recently even considering a White House run, let alone building an operation that would sustain one. Some voters and activists have also wondered aloud if a white man is the best fit for this Democratic moment, particularly after midterm successes powered often by female and nonwhite candidates. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] With Mr. O’Rourke’s entry, the primary field appears close to settled more than 10 months before the Iowa caucuses; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the only holdout among the expected major candidates, seems poised to join the race next month. Early polls have shown Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders on top. Mr. O’Rourke, three decades their junior, hopes to supply an unsubtle contrast, particularly given Mr. Sanders’s success with the kinds of young voters who flocked to Mr. O’Rourke in Texas. Advisers to other Democratic candidates have watched Mr. O’Rourke’s plans with concern, recognizing that the kind of face-to-face politicking that fueled his campaign to unseat Senator Ted Cruz in Texas should suit him well in early voting states like Iowa and New Hampshire, where voters crave personal interaction with candidates. Mr. O’Rourke made his town hall forums the centerpiece of his Senate candidacy, turning the race into a national cause — the underdog liberal running in a famously red state — trailed by a documentary film crew and endorsed by celebrities from Beyoncé to Willie Nelson. He made a point of visiting each of the 254 counties in Texas, helping him bulldoze fund-raising records and come within about 200,000 votes of Mr. Cruz on Election Day. The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. [Where Beto O’Rourke stands on the issues] Mr. O’Rourke also attracted many fans outside the state, drawing them into a perpetual social media live-stream capturing not only his political events but unscripted moments on the road: late-night burger stops, skateboarding in a parking lot, reminiscing with a former bandmate behind the wheel. For many politically obsessed liberals, his inevitably upbeat musings offered a welcome online antidote to Mr. Trump’s Twitter rampaging. On the eve of his announcement, Vanity Fair released a cover story on Mr. O’Rourke with photographs by Annie Leibovitz. Yet his boast in that interview — “I’m just born to do this” — and off-the-cuff comments he made Thursday about only sporadically helping his wife raise their children, quickly drew criticism and illustrated the peril of taking his unplugged style to the crucible of a presidential race. Admirers, however, believe it is this ability to generate his own narrative orbit that could separate him from his peers. “In a political environment where it’s so hard to break through, he has an ability to pique people’s interest and to drive a narrative on his own,” said Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic strategist who worked for Mrs. Clinton in 2016, and is not advising any candidate in 2020. “He isn’t just shadowboxing with the president’s Twitter handle.” On one central issue, though, Mr. Trump has provided Mr. O’Rourke with a useful foil. This year, when the president traveled to El Paso to press for a wall on the border with Mexico, the two headlined dueling rallies. Subsequently, he even said he would support tearing down the existing border wall in the El Paso area, a declaration that Republicans have suggested they will use against him should he make the general election. But the Democratic primary could present unique challenges to Mr. O’Rourke. It is an open question whether he will be able to scale up his skeletal organization and hand over control to the sort of political professionals he largely shunned in his Senate race. The lead-up to Mr. O’Rourke’s official announcement Thursday has been highly improvisational, in part because he was personally directing much of the planning. On Wednesday night, he was texting supporters in early nominating states to share his plans and to tell them he would have advisers get in touch with them about his schedule. And for weeks, he has been meeting and talking on the telephone with a number of Democratic strategists to gauge their interest in working for him, finding encouragement but also a reluctance to move to El Paso, where he is planning to base his operations. Mr. O’Rourke discussed the campaign manager job for 90 minutes with one strategist, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, but even on the eve of his announcement it was uncertain who would be at the helm of his organization. Yet he enjoys the support of many of Mr. Obama’s aides, some tacitly and others more full-throated, and he has relied on advice from a number of Mr. Obama’s strategists, including the 2008 campaign manager, David Plouffe. (Mr. Plouffe is not, however, planning to formally participate in the race on behalf of any candidate.) But unlike Mr. Obama, who ran in a year when the Iraq war was the single overriding policy issue in the Democratic race, Mr. O’Rourke is seeking the presidency at a moment his party is lurching left on issues across the board. He will be immediately under pressure to expand upon the sometimes-vague liberalism that has colored his public life. Already, allies of Mr. Sanders in particular have questioned Mr. O’Rourke’s commitment to progressive priorities. (Mr. O’Rourke has declined to call himself a progressive, saying he was “not big on labels.”) In 2016, he supported a centrist challenger to Nancy Pelosi to lead House Democrats. In 2018, he frustrated Texas activists by refusing to endorse Gina Ortiz Jones, a prized Democratic recruit for a House seat, because she was facing Mr. O’Rourke’s Republican friend, Representative Will Hurd, who eventually won by fewer than 1,000 votes. Mr. O’Rourke should have little trouble pulling in enough money to get a presidential campaign off the ground, though it is possible that some of his fund-raising success in 2018 owed to his opponent, Mr. Cruz, whom liberals love to loathe. Some in the party have questioned whether a Senate-race-losing candidate  should even be running for president so soon. Senate Democrats aggressively lobbied him to take on Texas’s other Republican senator, John Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year, even dispatching senior party officials to El Paso to make the case. In the months since his defeat, Mr. O’Rourke himself seemed to be casting about for answers, discussing a possible run with advisers but appearing genuinely conflicted — seeking clarity at one point by making a solo road trip to meet Americans in unrehearsed settings. On Thursday, any lingering apprehension was well concealed. “This is the moment,” he said, standing atop a coffeehouse counter in Burlington, hands flying, “for the leadership of the indispensable country.” He left little doubt which leader he had in mind for the top job.   ", "id": "5c8a268349f0eacbf105cfcc", "date": "2019-03-14T10:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke, Praising Immigration, Kicks Off Presidential Campaign in El Paso", "full_text": " EL PASO — Beto O’Rourke officially kicked off his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination Saturday morning, quoting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., raising populist themes and praising the way immigration has enriched El Paso and the nation. Speaking at a downtown rally near the border with Mexico, Mr. O’Rourke said that his hometown, El Paso, its embrace of immigration and its rich ties with Mexico represented the best of the American experience, adding that the challenges facing the country presented “a moment of truth.” Quoting Dr. King, he said El Paso and its Mexican neighbor of Ciudad Juárez were “caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny.” He added, “This is a campaign for America, for everyone in America.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] His words and the setting on the street that connects El Paso with Ciudad Juárez symbolized what his campaign said would be one of Mr. O’Rourke’s themes — a “unifying vision for bridging divides” to unite Americans from all walks of life. But the speech by Mr. O’Rourke, a former three-term member of Congress, comes at a time of extraordinary discord over immigration, with a surge of migrants trying to enter the United States and President Trump threatening to seal off the border next week. El Paso has been a flash point for much of that unrest, with hundreds of migrants now being held in a makeshift encampment under a bridge near where Mr. O’Rourke was speaking. The encampment, where immigration officials are detaining people behind razor wire with little hot food, was set up last week when El Paso’s main border processing center reached overflow capacity following the largest influx of migrants in years. Acknowledging the plight of the migrants, Mr. O’Rourke said, “Let us remember that every single one of us, including those who are just three or four blocks from here detained under the international bridge — behind chain-link fence and barbed wire — they are our fellow human beings and deserve to be treated like our fellow human beings.” Mr. O’Rourke, who also held rallies Saturday in Houston and outside the state’s capitol in Austin, stressed not only immigration but also health care, education, climate change, criminal justice reform, the economy, voting rights and racial inequality. All are topics that have emerged as major issues in the effort by Democrats to unseat Mr. Trump in 2020. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] “This is our moment of truth and we cannot be found wanting,” he told the enthusiastic crowd. “The challenges before us are the greatest of our lifetimes. An economy that works too well for too few and not at all for too many more. A health care system where millions are unable to see a doctor or be well enough to live to their full potential and the last, best hope of averting the catastrophe that will follow climate change, fading before our very inaction. We must overcome these challenges.” Mr. O’Rourke was introduced by his wife, Amy O’Rourke, an educator. The couple’s three children also attended. Mr. O’Rourke has been campaigning for two weeks, often in impromptu sessions in cafes or intimate town halls. But this was billed as his first major public event and opportunity to present the broad themes of his campaign. Speaking extemporaneously for 34 minutes, gesticulating as he walked around a stage set in the middle of the street, Mr. O’Rourke hit particularly hard on access to health care and prescription drug costs. “When one of the largest providers of mental health care services is a county jail system, and in a nation that is in the midst of a maternal mortality crisis — three times as deadly for women of color — let us ensure that universal health care means we can see a primary care provider, all of us can get mental health care, and that universal health care means that every woman makes her own decisions about her own body,” he said. He also called for better pay for teachers — “let’s pay them what they’re worth” — and a “world-class public school system from pre-K to 12.” The crowd of several thousand supporters included Marta Lopez, 71, a retired state worker from El Paso, who had come wearing a black-and-white BETO T-shirt. “We’ve lived here all our lives, and I feel we don’t need a wall,” said Ms. Lopez, adding that she admires Mr. O’Rourke’s positions on immigration as well as his pledge not to accept PAC money. Several supporters of Mr. O’Rourke said they were intimidated by a gantlet of pro-Trump protesters blocking their way to the rally. “They were just very confrontational and yelling scary stuff at us,’’ said Thelma Ramos, 38, of El Paso, who came with her 13-year-old daughter. Mr. O’Rourke, 46, grew up in this Texas border city, the son of a local political figure and a furniture store operator. He had little name recognition until last year, when he became a national figure during his unsuccessful effort to unseat Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican. With a progressive sheen and grass-roots appeal, Mr. O’Rourke set fund-raising records in that Senate campaign. He continued that record-setting pace in the 24 hours after announcing his White House ambitions two weeks ago, raising more than $6.1 million online in one day. That outpaced the $5.9 million collected by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in his first day. Some recent polls place Mr. O’Rourke third in popularity among Democrats expected to be in the race, behind former Vice President Joe Biden, who has not yet announced his intentions, and Mr. Sanders. And if his style is entirely different from Mr. Sanders, he hit many similar themes. “For too long in this country, the powerful have maintained their privilege at the expense of the powerless,” he said. “They have used fears and division in the same way that our current president uses fear and division.”   ", "id": "5c9f869e49f0eacbf17c4d6a", "date": "2019-03-30T15:07:48+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke’s 2020 Campaign Raised $9.4 Million in 18 Days", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas raised $9.4 million over the first 18 days of his presidential bid, his campaign said on Wednesday, the latest sign of his ability to attract online donors even within a packed Democratic field. The total, which represents Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising haul for the first quarter of the year, is smaller than the first-quarter numbers of two rivals, Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Kamala Harris of California. But Mr. O’Rourke only joined the presidential race in mid-March. Mr. O’Rourke, who proved to be an extraordinary online fund-raiser during his unsuccessful run for Senate last year, received 218,000 contributions, with an average donation of $43, his campaign said. It also said that a majority of donors to his presidential bid had not donated to his Senate campaign. Mr. O’Rourke raised roughly $80 million for his race against Senator Ted Cruz, an eye-popping total that created high expectations for his fund-raising as a presidential candidate. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] After entering the 2020 race, Mr. O’Rourke offered early evidence of his fund-raising power: His campaign said he had received $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his bid, more than any other Democratic presidential candidate had announced raising in his or her first day. Mr. Sanders had previously been atop the pack, at $5.9 million in 24 hours. That huge first day made up a majority of Mr. O’Rourke’s fund-raising in the first quarter. Mr. Sanders went on to reach a total of $10 million raised within a week of announcing his campaign, his team said, a threshold that Mr. O’Rourke did not meet in 18 days. “There are tremendous expectations for him given his 2018 performance, but he’s now swimming in a much more crowded pond than he was in 2018,” said Amy Walter, the national editor of the Cook Political Report. “And so I think that is going to be something to be watching for over the course of these next few months.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 98 percent of the contributions it received were below $200. The campaign did not say how much cash it currently has. “Not only is this a sign of our grass-roots strength during the first two weeks of our campaign,” Mr. O’Rourke said of his fund-raising in a statement, “but it is a sign of what’s possible when you put your full trust in the people of this country.” Presidential candidates must disclose their first-quarter fund-raising by April 15, but some campaigns decide to make their numbers public before that deadline. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said on Tuesday that he had raised $18.2 million over six weeks, and Ms. Harris’s campaign said on Monday that she had raised $12 million since joining the race in January. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million since January. The early fund-raising totals put Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke in their own class when it comes to bringing in money from grass-roots donors. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he had not held any fund-raising events. Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign said 99 percent of his fund-raising came from online donations, and that he had not held a fund-raiser since entering the race. Ms. Harris, on the other hand, has a strong network of small donors, but she has also aggressively courted large donors. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her $12 million total came from the campaign’s digital program, which includes fund-raising efforts like email solicitations. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    ", "id": "5ca4f49049f0eacbf1f80a5d", "date": "2019-04-03T17:58:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Hires Former Obama Aide as Campaign Manager", "full_text": " Beto O’Rourke has hired a former top aide to Barack Obama to be his campaign manager, installing a seasoned political strategist to take the helm of what has so far been a skeletal organization effectively overseen by Mr. O’Rourke himself. Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, a data expert who was Mr. Obama’s deputy campaign manager in 2012, said in an interview Monday that she was going to work for the 46-year-old former Texas congressman because he represents “a new generation of leadership I think we need.” Ms. O’Malley Dillon was one of the most sought-after Democratic operatives of this election, and her hiring suggests that Mr. O’Rourke is willing to professionalize his presidential bid in a way he resisted during his electrifying but unsuccessful Senate campaign last year. A former executive director of the Democratic National Committee, Ms. O’Malley Dillon, 42, has worked on five presidential races and a number of other campaigns. “We’re excited that Jen O’Malley Dillon has joined our team,” said Mr. O’Rourke. “Her leadership, experience and creativity will be a great addition to a campaign that is already doing so much to bring people together to overcome the greatest set of challenges this country has ever faced.” Since announcing his candidacy earlier this month, Mr. O’Rourke has drawn large crowds on his first forays into the early nominating states. But his improvisational style has also led to some missteps. Ms. O’Malley Dillon said her hope was to scale up Mr. O’Rourke’s operation to meet the demands of a presidential primary while also remaining true to the do-it-yourself instincts of a candidate who enjoys driving himself to campaign events. “We have to build something that really is special and unique to him,” she said. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Mr. O’Rourke entered the race without a campaign manager, having had his first extensive conversation with Ms. O’Malley Dillon at the South by Southwest conference in Austin, the weekend before he announced his candidacy. She is taking a leave from her Washington-based consulting firm, Precision Strategies, and will help on Mr. O’Rourke’s formal campaign launch this weekend in El Paso, where Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign is being based, before settling there in May. Ms. O’Malley Dillon, who had been working on a voter data project for the Democratic National Committee and consulting for the Liberal Party in Canada, said she had not planned to get involved this early in the 2020 race but said she was moved by Mr. O’Rourke’s message. “His leadership, his energy, his belief that you don’t have to segment voters and that you can be a president for all voters,” she said, assigning to Mr. O’Rourke attributes that many Democrats once associated with Mr. Obama. “People are searching for that.” As for whether Mr. O’Rourke would bring in a pollster for his presidential campaign — after boasting about his refusal to hire one in his Senate race — Ms. O’Malley Dillon said she wanted to build an operation that’s “authentic to Beto and also efficient and allows us the most direct engagement with voters.” That will, she said, “require a broad team.”   ", "id": "5c99379449f0eacbf105ef64", "date": "2019-03-25T20:16:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Imports a Texas Campaign Strategy to His First Day in Iowa", "full_text": " KEOKUK, Iowa — For a moment, he seemed almost tentative, ducking into a coffeehouse between a tattoo parlor and an American Legion hall — speaking mostly of Texas because it was not clear where else to start. “I want to hear from you about what it’s like in Iowa,” Beto O’Rourke said, standing on a chair minutes into his first event as a presidential candidate, on his first-ever visit to the state. “Let me share with you what I learned in Texas.” It was a little after 8 a.m. on Thursday. By 8:30, he had removed his sweater to answer a question on federal marijuana legalization. (He’s for it.) By 8:39, he had perspired enough that his temples glowed a bit. By 8:45, he was recommending music to the locals. “Blaze Foley!” he told one woman who approached for a photograph, name-checking the late country singer from Austin. [Read more about Beto O’Rourke’s entrance into the race, and where he stands on the issues.] Mr. O’Rourke, 46, learned quite a lot from his failed-but-star-making Senate run last year: how to go viral; how to draw in a volunteer army; how to drive himself from stop to stop, well north of the speed limit, without attracting too much police attention. And on the first day of his quest for a mega-promotion, as he ferried his team in a rented minivan with Illinois plates, Mr. O’Rourke made plain his intention to transpose his Texas blueprint onto the national stage. He peppered his remarks with Spanish before almost exclusively Caucasian audiences — swearing sporadically in both languages. He described life in El Paso, where his wife is raising their three kids — “sometimes with my help,” Mr. O’Rourke joked. He told the tale of a West Texas pecan grower when asked about trade policy. “Our states have something in common, Texas and Iowa,” Mr. O’Rourke concluded a few hours into his trip, comparing the two states’ progress on sustainable energy. There is likely no better place for this approach than Iowa, whose residents prize face-to-face interaction with candidates and cheer those who visit all 99 counties. (Mr. O’Rourke touched down in all 254 of Texas’ counties during his Senate run.) Yet Thursday’s travels also highlighted Mr. O’Rourke’s already considerable following outside his home state, with phone-waving crowds waiting to greet him even for gatherings that had not been advertised widely. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Ivy Boddicker, 18, arrived at Mr. O’Rourke’s first event with a “Betomania” button, featuring Mr. O’Rourke with a guitar, and a “Beto 2020” shirt that had been a custom-made Christmas present. “He seems really nice and really cool,” she said. Ms. Boddicker hailed his support for immigrants. “And one time,” she added, “he was skateboarding across the stage.” At Sub Arena in Fort Madison, home to well-stacked deli sandwiches and a $3 cottage cheese potato salad, several guests recalled warming to Mr. O’Rourke as they followed his Senate campaign or in his recent appearance with Oprah Winfrey. “Have you considered being on the talk show ‘The View’?” one woman asked, suggesting another venue for exposure. “Folks down with ‘The View’?” Mr. O’Rourke asked the room, coming around without much prodding. “I don’t know that I’m in the business of turning anyone away.” In other encounters, Mr. O’Rourke, whose public remarks often lean heavily on stories from voters he meets, seemed to be prospecting for fresh anecdotes in real time. On a tour of Fort Madison High School, he found a muse in the welding shop leader who was guiding students into durable careers. “We need to take the lead of Mr. King, who I just met,” Mr. O’Rourke said a short while later in another classroom, where a sign near the door included simple instructions for where to migrate in an emergency: “TORNADO,” with an arrow pointing left, and “FIRE,” with an arrow pointing right. “I’m so psyched,” Julie Yurko, a math coach for the district, said afterward, wearing a top and earrings with the pi symbol for March 14, National Pi Day. “Fan girl.” Some students were less animated, barely looking up from their lockers as Mr. O’Rourke passed them. When Mr. O’Rourke informed a Spanish class that he was seeking the presidency, the teacher reacted (“Ay caramba”) more theatrically than his charges. A few minutes later, Mr. O’Rourke was led into Classroom 310 to make an introduction. “We’ll be back,” he promised the students. Exactly one of them clapped. Mr. O’Rourke smiled. “Thanks for clapping,” he said softly.    ", "id": "5c8ae2a749f0eacbf105d27d", "date": "2019-03-14T23:22:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Hopeful Beto O'Rourke Releases 10 Years of Tax Returns", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Democratic presidential candidate Beto O'Rourke on Monday released 10 years of his tax returns, with the most recent filing showing that he and his wife earned more than $360,000 in income. Encompassing 2008 through 2017, the hundreds of pages of returns show that the former Texas congressman and his wife, Amy, had a total annual income of more than $330,000 from 2015 to 2017. His effective tax rate for 2017 was 22%. In 2008, their joint income was around $280,000. In a statement, O'Rourke's campaign said it would be making his 2018 tax returns public \"as soon as possible after they are filed.\" In 2017, the O'Rourkes paid about $81,000 in taxes on an adjusted gross income of nearly $366,500. The couple did not give much of their income to charity, donating only about $1,200 in 2017 and less than $900 each in 2016 and 2015. O'Rourke joins Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and several other high-profile Democrats vying for their party's 2020 presidential nomination in releasing years of past tax information. That's in contrast to President Donald Trump, who has bucked longtime presidential tradition and declined to make his tax filings public. Sanders' release of 10 years of tax returns confirmed that his income crossed the $1 million threshold in 2016 and 2017. O'Rourke's father-in-law is a well-known developer in his native El Paso, Texas, and O'Rourke's past financial disclosure records filed during his three terms in the House had previously showed that he and his wife had sold real estate and other assets worth more than $1 million. That meant the onetime punk rocker was actually wealthier than Sen. Ted Cruz, the Republican he challenged in deeply conservative Texas and nearly upset in November.", "id": "5cb528f249f0eacbf1f845f4", "date": "2019-04-16T00:57:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke and Amy Klobuchar to Make 2020 Decisions Soon", "full_text": " Beto O’Rourke, the Texas Democrat whose near miss Senate bid last year catapulted him to national fame, said on Tuesday afternoon that he would decide by the end of February whether to run for president in 2020. Another potential 2020 candidate, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, disclosed the timing of her own decision after President Trump’s State of the Union address. Ms. Klobuchar said she would reveal her plans about 2020 on Sunday at an event in Minneapolis. If she runs, Ms. Klobuchar would be the fifth woman currently serving in Congress to enter the Democratic race, which is already the most diverse in history. She and Mr. O’Rourke are among several Democrats who are now eyeing the race, including Senator Bernie Sanders, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke, in an interview in Times Square with Oprah Winfrey, said family considerations were the only obstacle to a campaign for the Democratic nomination. “I have been thinking about running for president,” he said, to considerable applause inside a small theater where Ms. Winfrey was taping a special with Mr. O’Rourke and other boldfaced names like Bradley Cooper and Melinda Gates. “And what’s the conclusion?” she pressed. “Are you running?” He equivocated a bit, wondering aloud if he could “be that person” to play the role of national unifier, to “bring this country together around the big things that we know we should be able to do.” “Yes,” Ms. Winfrey said, performatively impatient. “Will you be running?” Mr. O’Rourke said he wanted to be sure his family was cleareyed and supportive before he committed to anything. Ms. Winfrey was not satisfied. “Where’s Amy?” she said, scanning the crowd for Mr. O’Rourke’s wife, who was seated behind Mr. Cooper. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] In the months since his narrow defeat in the race against Senator Ted Cruz, Mr. O’Rourke, a former congressman from El Paso, has become a wild card in the prospective primary field, weighing whether his message of generational uplift and red-state liberalism would translate among national Democrats. Some progressives, wary of his big-tent approach, are skeptical that he can be trusted as an unswerving ally. Unlike many would-be rivals — who have either declared their intentions or are taking more traditional steps toward a run, like building campaigns-in-waiting and assembling early-state teams — Mr. O’Rourke has done little formal preparation for a bid. Instead, he has driven around the country, alone, interacting with strangers and publishing journal entries online about his travels. Much of the conversation with Ms. Winfrey centered on his deliberations since the midterms, which have included a meeting with former President Barack Obama, who famously benefited from the Oprah imprimatur during his own White House run. “He was very generous in sharing what his thought process was leading up to that decision,” Mr. O’Rourke said, adding that Mr. Obama had not explicitly encouraged him to run. Mr. O’Rourke digressed for a moment to recognize how surreal his circumstances had become, less than two years after entering his Senate race as a mostly-anonymous congressman. “Even saying these words, it’s hard to believe that I met with Barack Obama and I’m saying it to Oprah Winfrey,” he said. “You seem like you’re getting ready to run,” Ms. Winfrey said, wrapping up the interview. He smiled, declining to push back. The two hugged. Mr. Cooper was on next. “I hope he runs,” the actor said after taking his seat. “We need inspiration.”    ", "id": "5c5a172a3a125f5075c082b4", "date": "2019-02-05T23:07:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O'Rourke's Past Support for Charter Schools Scrutinized in 2020 White House Bid", "full_text": " EL PASO, Texas — Democrat Beto O'Rourke has called for investment in a “world-class public school system\" and says teachers make up the single biggest professional group contributing to his 2020 presidential campaign. But several teacher groups say the former Texas congressman's support for charter schools in recent years is complicating his efforts to secure their backing in his White House bid. Charter schools, most of which are publicly funded but often privately run, are a complicated issue for Democrats. Former Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama supported them, viewing them as giving school choice to lower-income families. Charter schools have grown across the country in response to demand from parents for different options from traditional public schools. Many charter school employees are not unionized.  But some teachers unions say they divert state and federal funds from public schools. They have raised O'Rourke's past positive comments about charter schools, as well as his wife's ties to them through her work, as points of concern as they scrutinize the Democratic field. \"We’re going to have to get a lot of questions answered by Beto,\" said Norma De La Rosa, president of the El Paso Teachers Association in O'Rourke's hometown. \"At this point, I would be wary and I think a lot of my colleagues are going to hit him hard on these points.\" Teachers and their unions are being eagerly courted by the large slate of Democrats seeking the party's 2020 presidential nomination to run against President Donald Trump, the expected Republican nominee. Educators are a key voting bloc in state nominating contests and have flexed their political muscle in the past two years with a wave of strikes and protests over better pay and resources.  U.S. Senator Kamala Harris, a Democratic presidential contender from California, has proposed giving teachers an average $13,500 annual pay raise as a central part of her pitch to primary voters. The politics of charter schools has shifted since some prominent Democrats lent their support. Public schools have seen their budgets cut since the 2008 financial crash, hardening opposition to charters among many teachers. The Trump administration's strong support for charter schools has also increased Democratic antipathy. Another 2020 Democratic candidate, U.S. Senator Cory Booker, also is drawing scrutiny for his support for school choice and charter schools when he was mayor of Newark, New Jersey. 'STRONG, CONSISTENT ADVOCATE' Aides to O'Rourke say he is unequivocal in his support for public schools and has never taken any action to advance charter schools over them. He and his wife send their children to the same El Paso public school O'Rourke attended. \"Beto has been a strong and consistent advocate for public school classrooms in Texas and across the country,\" Chris Evans, a spokesman for O'Rourke, said in an email. \"He has made it clear that our focus should be on, and our taxpayer funds should go toward, public school classrooms where the overwhelming majority of American students attend. He believes we should be paying teachers a living wage.\" O'Rourke thinks charter schools \"should have comprehensive oversight and accountability to the taxpayer,\" Evans added  But O'Rourke's past statements about charter schools give some public education advocates pause. In 2016, when O'Rourke voted against a federal voucher program in Washington, D.C., he said money should be invested in \"proven educational models such as charter schools.\" In 2015, O'Rourke said he voted for the Every Student Succeeds Act - which passed Congress with bipartisan support - in part because it gave parents choices by \"investing in new charter school models.\" During a 2012 Democratic primary debate when he first ran for Congress, O'Rourke called charter schools \"a good idea\" because they encourage competition and innovation.  O'Rourke's wife, Amy, works for an organization in El Paso that backs the expansion of charter schools in the area. In 2007, she opened a dual-language elementary charter school in a low-income neighborhood of El Paso. Evans said Amy O'Rourke's work had been focused on expanding opportunities for students in underserved communities. 'HUGELY PROBLEMATIC' Anthony Cody, co-founder of the Network for Public Education Action, a national advocacy group for public schools that opposes charter schools, said his organization found O'Rourke's past comments and his wife's work in the charter school world \"hugely problematic.\" Noel Candelaria, president of the Texas State Teachers Association, which opposes the expansion of charter schools in Texas, said it would be important for O’Rourke to make clear to his organization “where he stands on charter schools” now before he wins an endorsement. The association endorsed O'Rourke during his unsuccessful Senate bid last year against Republican incumbent Ted Cruz. Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, the country's second-largest teachers union, defended O'Rourke's \"nuanced\" view of charter schools. \"For us, it's not 'charters good or bad,' and if you listen to Beto's actual comments about public schools and charter schools, he gets to the same position: They can't siphon money from public schools, they can't take fewer kids with special needs.\" Weingarten said she recently talked with O'Rourke. \"I think when he toured the (Mexican) border and spoke to teachers, it was very transformational for him,\" she said. \"People's positions evolve over time.\"   (Reporting by Tim Reid; Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Peter Cooney)", "id": "5caf248a49f0eacbf1f82c0a", "date": "2019-04-11T11:25:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Was Once Adrift in New York City. Now He’s Searching Again.", "full_text": " The Long Run As the former Texas congressman weighs a run for president, his rebel-in-moderation youth offers revealing parallels to his search for direction now. A young Beto O’Rourke. In New York, he felt unfulfilled by jobs as a nanny on the Upper West Side, at his uncle’s tech business, moving fine art and in publishing.CreditCreditvia Katherine Raymond All at once, New York City seemed to be conspiring against Beto O’Rourke. His girlfriend was moving to France. His punk bandmates had scattered. Twenty-three and searching — with an Ivy League degree that could not pay rent — Mr. O’Rourke subsisted as a live-in nanny on the Upper West Side, with a futon in the maid’s quarters, watching over a wealthy family’s two preschoolers. “I just remember his dad coming,” said the former girlfriend, Sasha Watson, recalling a pep talk from Pat O’Rourke, a prominent Texas county commissioner and judge, who insisted his son was destined for “bigger things.” “He really saw great things for Beto.” Great things were not happening. By late 1995, Mr. O’Rourke had fallen into the deepest depression he can remember. He worked for an uncle’s tech business because it was a job. He spent nights alone listening to his cassettes because it passed the time. “Little bit of a sad case,” Mr. O’Rourke said. More than two decades later, long after what friends describe as a quarter-life crisis, Mr. O’Rourke has arrived at a midlife crossroads of enormous consequence, with revealing parallels to his time in New York. Forty-six and searching — after a narrow Senate loss in Texas last year that propelled the former El Paso congressman to Democratic stardom — he has been driving around the country, alone, introducing himself to strangers, deciding if he wants to run for president. He has described himself as “stuck,” in and out of a “funk.” He has compared the present reckoning to moments of rootlessness in the city, when he last found himself out of work. “I just didn’t ever want to feel like that or be in that place or that position again,” Mr. O’Rourke said in an hourlong phone interview. “So that lately has felt kind of strange, maybe with some echoes.” Early polls and prospective opponents agree that Mr. O’Rourke, with his message of generational change and liberal-for-Texas politics, would enter the race as a top-tier contender, buoyed by a national network of small-dollar donors and an instinct for uplift and social media ubiquity. Well before his return this week to his former city — for an interview on Tuesday with Oprah Winfrey in Times Square, heightening 2020 expectations — Mr. O’Rourke’s New York chapter has stood as the unlikely forerunner to his political rise, laying bare the unusual path that led him to national politics and the who-should-I-be self-reflection that has come to define his presidential deliberations. Then, as now, he appeared less concerned with political ideology than the pursuit of authentic experiences and a sense of community, an instinct that has frustrated some progressive voters who question Mr. O’Rourke’s policy convictions. Then, as now, he could swerve quickly from mawkish to mischievous — by turns a goofy extrovert and a lone wolf, withdrawing in moments of introspection. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] If there is a certain kind of New York story that successful people tell about themselves — the tenacious artists, grinding until they get discovered; the downtown capitalists, rat-racing into the One Percent — Mr. O’Rourke’s is not one of those. While past political figures, most memorably a young Barack Obama, found their intellectual moorings among the city’s thinkers and strivers, Mr. O’Rourke’s seven New York years (four at Columbia University and three after graduation) were, in his own telling, often an exercise in recognizing his own averageness. He loved music but came to see he was not talented enough to hit it big. He thought he might pursue publishing but struggled to break in. He was intimidated by the intelligence of his peers. “He didn’t really have the kind of ambition that a lot of people have in New York,” said Brooks Williams, Mr. O’Rourke’s uncle, who has lived and worked for decades on Franklin Street. “It wasn’t fulfilling for him.” Yet New York also supplied an early proving ground for the kind of personal appeal that would power Mr. O’Rourke’s ascent, showcasing a gift for gab and whimsy and binding him to a circle of friends who remain confidants. At the age when many would-be presidential rivals had long since chosen their course, zipping through law school and storming into politics, Mr. O’Rourke was paying $130 a month to share a 2,000-square-foot loft with creative types in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. (Downsides of the bargain included D.I.Y. bedroom construction and indoor temperatures so low that tenants could see their own breath.) [Mr. O’Rourke likes to write about his travels. Matt Flegenheimer takes you inside his musings] For Mr. O’Rourke, the period was an early lesson in his own limitations. “I’m not great solo,” he said. “I need people.” For those who knew him, another observation now comes to mind: They did not believe they were looking at a future statesman. “You’re supposed to make friends with future secretaries of state, not weirdo musicians,” a friend, Adam Mortimer, said. “It’s like, wait, one of the weirdo musicians might run for president.” He seemed like any other punk-minded student: Jawbox T-shirt, hair past his shoulders and a grim insistence that the Smashing Pumpkins had grown pretentious. Now Mr. O’Rourke had the run of the city. He went by Robert — Beto was a nickname from El Paso, owing to its border-town bilingualism — and he played the guitar, establishing himself as the school’s gentle punk rocker. When a bandmate in a group called Swipe adopted a belligerent performance persona, telling crowds that they were listening to “Angry Swipe,” Mr. O’Rourke protested from the stage. “He was like, ‘No, we’re not. We’re not angry,’” the band member, Alan Wieder, said. “It made him very uncomfortable that I was mean.” Offstage, Mr. O’Rourke was a prolific dabbler, straddling disparate orbits. He was socially conscious but not especially political, “other than whatever kind of politics were being talked about in Fugazi,” a former roommate, Jeff Ryan, said, naming one of Mr. O’Rourke’s favorite groups. He often kept a musician’s rollicking hours — “He liked to drink beer,” Mr. Wieder said, “not in the Brett Kavanaugh sense” — but also rowed crew, requiring him to rise by 4 a.m. for practice on the Harlem River. He was an English major skilled enough with computers to introduce roommates to the culture of early-1990s chat rooms, once pranking a girlfriend by posing as a romantically interested woman online. “I kind of have a boyfriend,” the girlfriend, Katherine Raymond, recalled typing back to the person she did not know was Mr. O’Rourke, as he sat in an adjacent room. Then she heard a shout through the wall: “What do you mean you kind of have a boyfriend?” For a time, Mr. O’Rourke still thought that music might provide a long-term plan. Friends from El Paso, with whom he had toured, seemed committed to trying. One of them, Cedric Bixler-Zavala, later headlined successful groups like At the Drive-In and the Mars Volta. But as he prepared to leave college, his hair now shorn a bit, Mr. O’Rourke seemed to accept that music would become more passion than profession. He took writing workshops. He read Greek tragedies (“the Greeks got me, man”). He attended astronomy class with Ms. Watson, his girlfriend at the time, despite not being enrolled. “He was sort of seeking,” Ms. Watson said. “He was looking for how to be, in kind of a pure way.” She remembered a professor asking once what students wanted from life. Mr. O’Rourke said he hoped to be “a simple man.” “That,” the teacher said, “is not a simple thing.” The nanny life was perhaps too simple for Mr. O’Rourke. High above Manhattan, in the historic Apthorp building at 79th and Broadway, he would wake to make breakfast for the family’s young son, help him dress and walk him to school. “Another nanny,” Mr. O’Rourke said, “came in for the little girl.” Still working during the day for his uncle, he left the caretaking job after a few months and answered an ad in The Village Voice to rent a room in a small Brooklyn apartment alongside a couple recently emigrated from the Ivory Coast. Loneliness consumed him. “You kind of feel sorry for yourself,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “You don’t know how to connect again.” A chance reunion with a college friend at a bar in Williamsburg landed Mr. O’Rourke a share of a not-yet-livable loft area on Wallabout Street. The group essentially constructed the interior from scratch, clearing mounds of debris and erecting walls. Guitars and drums soon filled the space. A cat named Dot paced among the record collections. Someone scrawled an apartment motto in a bathroom rich with graffiti: “It’s not a lot, Dot, but it’s what we’ve got.” In a neighborhood of Hasidic Jews, Mexican-Americans and residents from the Marcy Houses blocks away, Mr. O’Rourke developed a reputation as the socially dexterous Texan who could talk to anyone. “If you needed somebody to talk to somebody, you asked Beto,” a neighbor, Yuval Adler, recalled. Mr. O’Rourke grew so close to the building superintendent that the man gave the group a premium toilet, albeit with a cracked seat cover. “He would come to the building in the morning and just stand outside and scream, ‘Robert! Robert!’” a roommate, David Guinn, said of the super. “It would be like 6:30 in the morning.” In other moments, apartment security was found wanting. Amid a celebration after building a new room, Mr. O’Rourke noticed something strange through the window. “We were drinking a beer in the room that we had just built,” he said. “I was like, ‘Hey, Dave, that guy’s riding a bike that looks a lot like your bike. And he’s carrying a word processor that looks a lot like yours, Mike.’” They had been robbed as they sat in their own apartment. Most memories were happier ones. Live music pounded until dawn. Housemates gathered on a rooftop trampoline, recovered from the set of a Busta Rhymes music video, to watch the sun sail past the Twin Towers. Mr. O’Rourke found work moving fine art for a company called Hedley’s Humpers — a Picasso here, a samurai sword there — and the apartment remained a neighborhood hub for creativity and mind-calming indulgence. “Pot, yeah, there was definitely, you know,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “There was, uh, I don’t know how to put this, but yeah. People smoked pot, but not habitually.” (He allowed that he was among those people.) Yet Mr. O’Rourke never felt like a permanent New Yorker, he said. No job fit quite right; no prospect particularly appealed. His father’s hopes, friends say, loomed as subtext, even if Mr. O’Rourke seemed intent on making his own choices. “Pursuing a life so different from Pat’s — an artist’s life — and fearing that his father would not understand, that was hard for him,” Ms. Watson said. The New York dream was punctured for good, like many before and since, on the rails of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Mr. O’Rourke was commuting to the Bronx for an entry-level publishing job, “smashed up against the glass” of a packed subway car. He thought about El Paso open spaces, El Paso food, El Paso family. “I just had this vision of being in my truck with the windows down,” he said. “I remember calling my folks that night, and I said, ‘Hey, I think I’m going to come back.’” Mr. O’Rourke bought a truck on Long Island for $1,000 and packed his New York life away. He said his goodbyes and drove. Kitty Bennett contributed research.    ", "id": "5c5b36e03a125f5075c0859d", "date": "2019-02-06T19:34:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Beto O’Rourke Enters 2020 Race", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Beto O’Rourke, whose near-miss Senate run last year propelled him to Democratic stardom, joined the race for president this morning. In the crowded and competitive primary field, his entrance adds to the mix a relentless campaigner with a small-dollar fund-raising army. Here’s where he stands on the issues. • Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, will serve seven and a half years in prison, after a federal judge nearly doubled his sentence, denouncing him as a man who “spent a significant portion of his career gaming the system.” It’s still far less than he could’ve served. • Mr. Manafort has also been charged in New York with mortgage fraud and more than a dozen other state felonies, in an effort by the Manhattan district attorney to ensure he will still face prison time if Mr. Trump pardons him for his federal crimes. • The United States grounded Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft, the plane in the deadly crash in Ethiopia, after days of mounting pressure. • When Mr. Trump selected David Malpass to lead the World Bank, he made one thing abundantly clear: The bank, under his watch, must put America first. But as Mr. Malpass canvasses the world to seek support for his candidacy, he is trying to distance himself from his boss. • The Defense Department, after months of litigation and controversy over the issue, is setting a new policy for transgender troops: They can enlist and serve, but only if they stick to their biological sex. No transitioning allowed. • The Senate again rebuked Mr. Trump for his continued defense of Saudi Arabia after the killing of the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi, voting for a second time to end American military assistance for the kingdom’s war in Yemen. • This year’s State Department report on human rights abuses condemned China’s treatment of Uighurs and other minorities, comparing it to atrocities not seen “since the 1930s.” But the report does not directly confront intelligence regarding the Saudi crown prince’s responsibility in Mr. Khashoggi’s death. • Mr. Trump tends to reserve a specific viewpoint when publicly addressing matters around technology advancement: Older is better. • Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter and a top White House adviser, was not directly targeted in the blitz of 81 document requests sent out by the House Judiciary Committee earlier this month. But, 52 of those letters did seek information on her. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c8a364349f0eacbf105cfe5", "date": "2019-03-14T11:07:20+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Says He Has ‘Made a Decision’ on a Presidential Run", "full_text": " Beto O’Rourke, who has turned his consideration of a presidential campaign into an online version of reality television, inviting Americans to follow along through journal dispatches as he travels the country in search of personal clarity, said Wednesday that he had made his decision. What is it? He’ll tell you soon. When is soon? Unclear. “Amy and I have made a decision about how we can best serve our country,” Mr. O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, said in the briefest of statements, referring to his wife, Amy Sanders. “We are excited to share it with everyone soon.” [Stay up-to-date on the growing Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. O’Rourke, who served in the House from 2013 through the beginning of 2019, made a national name for himself last year when he gave Senator Ted Cruz a surprisingly strong challenge in a reliably conservative state. Mr. Cruz was re-elected by less than three percentage points. Six years earlier, he had won by 16 points. In his Senate campaign, Mr. O’Rourke fired up Texas Democrats with a broadly liberal message and a charismatic stage presence, while also pulling in donations from across the country. Some political observers have been urging him to try to replicate that campaign in 2020 against Texas’ other Republican senator, John Cornyn, rather than enter one of the most crowded Democratic primary fields in history. The announcement-of-a-coming-announcement was first reported by The Dallas Morning News Wednesday afternoon. The paper, citing anonymous sources “close to the former El Paso congressman,” also reported that Mr. O’Rourke had decided not to challenge Mr. Cornyn, who is up for re-election next year. Such a decision would suggest that Mr. O’Rourke was leaning toward a run for the presidency. Mr. O’Rourke’s spokesman, Chris Evans, would not comment on whether the former congressman had decided to forgo a 2020 Senate run. But since almost the moment he conceded in November, the larger speculation has been whether he will try to translate his appeal in Texas, where he presented himself as a unifier, to a national primary in which Democratic voters have shown an appetite for more strongly progressive policies. He placed well in some early polls, landing as high as third in mid-January behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (who has not decided whether he will run) and Senator Bernie Sanders (who entered the race last week). In more recent polls, Senators Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren have surpassed him. Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c77371849f0eacbf105a8c5", "date": "2019-02-28T01:17:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Moving Toward a 2020 Race He Could Upend, Ready or Not", "full_text": " Beto O’Rourke has driven alone across the plains, straining to find his emotional bearings — or at least a Pancake House in Liberal, Kan. He has collected an “El Pasoan of the Year” award, before a modest audience, and smiled coyly through an interview with Oprah Winfrey, before a bigger one. He has surfaced on college campuses, to listen to students; at a Metallica concert, to listen to Metallica; and at the premiere of a documentary about his star-making Senate run in Texas at the South by Southwest festival, to listen to himself on screen. He has journaled extensively. “We’re in this together, like it or not,” Mr. O’Rourke wrote, summarizing the lessons of his recent solo travels in one of several stream-of-consciousness online posts. “The alternative is to be in this apart, and that would be hell.” As the Democratic presidential field takes final shape, Mr. O’Rourke seems inclined to be in this, according to interviews with people who have spoken to him and other top Democrats. He says he has made a decision about whether to run and could announce it as early as this week, unsettling prospective rival campaigns that consider Mr. O’Rourke a credible threat. Yet in the four months since his Senate loss, Mr. O’Rourke, 46, has done little to demonstrate the kind of intensive preparation — building national political infrastructure, projecting a signature policy rationale for a candidacy — typically associated with a top-flight presidential campaign. There has been no flirtation tour in Iowa, no trip to New Hampshire since his college years as an Ivy League rower. Mr. O’Rourke had no traditional campaign-in-waiting at the ready after the midterms — the sort of operation available to a more experienced holdout like former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. or carefully built over months by first-time presidential candidates like Senators Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker and Kamala Harris. Few doubt Mr. O’Rourke’s capacity to upend the race regardless, buoyed by a talent for relentless retail politics, a formidable low-dollar fund-raising army and an unsubtle contrast to front-runners in their 70s, like Mr. Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders. He also can count on help from several veterans of former President Barack Obama’s campaigns. One of them, Paul Tewes, Mr. Obama’s 2008 Iowa state director, has been helping to plan Mr. O’Rourke’s candidacy, according to three Democrats familiar with the effort, and Mr. O’Rourke is expected to appear in Iowa this weekend to campaign for a local candidate in an upcoming special election. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] But perhaps no major 2020 player invites as many question marks as Mr. O’Rourke, and his drawn-out non-candidacy has provided few answers: Is this the moment for a relatively untested white male in a party eager to elevate female and nonwhite voices in the quest to dethrone President Trump? Can Mr. O’Rourke scale up to a national campaign without losing the intimate, semi-improvisational feel of his perpetually live-streamed Senate bid? And in a primary where some top candidates have already sought to establish progressive litmus tests on key issues, what does Mr. O’Rourke actually believe? “He’s still an open book,” said Maurice Mitchell, national director for the Working Families Party. “He sort of catapulted himself into the national spotlight without answering a lot of questions about where he stands.” Amanda Litman, a Democratic strategist who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016, wondered aloud if Mr. O’Rourke would be considered a top-tier candidate “if he wasn’t a handsome young white man.” “He’s certainly effective at communicating the values behind a policy,” she said, “but that may not cut it in a primary where we all share the same values and are debating the execution on those values.” Mr. O’Rourke has betrayed little concern about catering to his left flank. People close to him say a central takeaway from speaking to disparate audiences in recent months is that voters are far less ideological than some in the party might believe — supplying an opening, Mr. O’Rourke senses, for a unifying figure in a bog of partisan warriors. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Robby Mook, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager in 2016, said that Mr. O’Rourke stands apart as a politician who can “drive his own news,” independent of Mr. Trump, alluding to his history of social media-ready flourishes on the campaign trail. “It’s not just a matter of being authentic,” Mr. Mook said. “It’s authentically taking on Trump and challenging political norms.” Still, most candidates considered to be top 2020 contenders tend to check at least one of the following three boxes: a firm policy bedrock anchoring their campaigns, like the economic platforms of Mr. Sanders or Ms. Warren; the potential to make history, like Ms. Harris or her female Senate peers in the field; or deep experience and national standing, like Mr. Biden. Mr. O’Rourke would appear to satisfy none of these descriptions, though his instinct for viral internet ubiquity and generational uplift may amount to its own category. His fans compare him to Mr. Obama or the Kennedys — a font of rangy inspiration — rarely dwelling on his record. But Mr. O’Rourke would enter the race without a signal achievement over six years as an El Paso congressman, nor an obvious big-ticket policy idea that might animate his bid. In public settings of late, Mr. O’Rourke has placed immigration, education and especially climate change at the center of his remarks, which tend to focus most on a high-minded-but-vague message of uniting a divided nation. Perhaps mindful of this reputation, he has recently unveiled multi-point plans on immigration and criminal justice reform. Both sketch out ideas he has largely outlined before. Friends say he has cycled through a number of policy passions through the years — marijuana legalization, advocacy for veterans, rural hospital access — often prompted by insights from the people he meets. “It’s the time that calls his issues,” said Steve Ortega, a friend who served on the El Paso City Council with him. Mr. O’Rourke spent much of the last two months of 2018 finishing his work in Congress, condensing his preparation period even more tightly. In recent weeks, though, he has done some of the more typical work of a politician considering a run for president: conferring with longtime staff and others who he hopes might join his cause; speaking to key groups, like a conference of Hispanic leaders in Chicago and gun control advocates in his hometown; headlining a rally to counter Mr. Trump’s call for a border wall when the president appeared in El Paso. But his indecisiveness has compelled some veteran Democratic aides who admire him to accept positions with other candidates. Several people who have spoken to his team came away questioning whether Mr. O’Rourke was thoroughly prepared for the crush of a national race. Some suggested he lacked detailed plans like a comprehensive strategy for amassing delegates. (Mr. O’Rourke and his advisers have, however, spoken to campaign veterans with experience in managing the delegate process about possibly joining his team, according to a person familiar with the discussions.) Unlike other candidates who recruited staff members over the past year with a wink and a nod — all but sure that they would enter the race — Mr. O’Rourke was still conveying uncertainty as recently as last month, according to the people who spoke to him. Since then, he has sounded firmer. “I think he feels his time is now,” said Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, who met with Mr. O’Rourke at length recently. Ms. Weingarten, speaking with Mr. O’Rourke and his wife, Amy, in El Paso, raised the possibility of Mr. O’Rourke’s challenging Senator John Cornyn in 2020. Texas Democrats have prodded him on this score as well, but few expect Mr. O’Rourke to confine his ambitions to another state-level race. After prolific success with small-dollar donors during the midterms, Mr. O’Rourke is likely to have little trouble raising enough money to get a presidential run off the ground. His presence could energize some crucial voting blocs, like young people, who formed much of his coalition in Texas. “If he got in, it would be a pretty big game-changer,” said Eliana Locke, who leads the College Democrats at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where Mr. O’Rourke met with students last month. Supporters also say it is laughable that some liberals, particularly allies of Mr. Sanders, have described Mr. O’Rourke as a squishy moderate because of a congressional record that sometimes veered toward centrism. More recently, Mr. O’Rourke moved well to the left of many 2018 Democrats by raising the prospect of impeaching Mr. Trump; argued for the destruction of existing border barriers between El Paso and Mexico; and, in perhaps his most widely seen social media moment, defended the professional football players who were kneeling in protest during the national anthem. “In Texas, Ted Cruz called me a socialist. I’m too liberal for Texas,” Mr. O’Rourke told the students in Wisconsin. “Outside of Texas, people say, ‘Is he really a Democrat? I think he’s a closet Republican.’ I don’t know where I am on a spectrum, and I almost could care less. I just want to get to better things for this country.” Mr. Ortega, the friend from the City Council, suggested that part of Mr. O’Rourke’s appeal owes to his self-awareness on matters of substance: He knows what he doesn’t know and is unafraid to concede that a question extends beyond his expertise. “He’s not the kind of guy who’s going to give you a made-up, half-baked answer,” Mr. Ortega said. For now, supporters would settle for the fully baked answer he is keeping to himself: Is he in or out? Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c8623f349f0eacbf105c63c", "date": "2019-03-11T09:00:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Raised $6.1 Million Online in First 24 Hours of Campaign", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Beto O’Rourke raised more than $6 million online in the first 24 hours after announcing his presidential campaign last week, according to his campaign, outpacing his rivals for the Democratic nomination and making an emphatic statement about his grass-roots financial strength. Mr. O’Rourke brought in $6,136,736 after declaring his long-anticipated bid with a web video and trip to Iowa on Thursday morning, raising the sum entirely online and from all 50 states, the campaign said. He narrowly beat the first-day haul of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who raised $5.9 million after announcing his bid last month and who would go on to raise $10 million before his first week was over. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. O’Rourke’s early burst of fund-raising illustrates how much he has captured the imagination of many Democratic activists around the country, who propelled him to break financial records last year in his ultimately losing bid to unseat Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. There were some doubts as to whether those same grass-roots donors would also contribute to him when he was not facing Mr. Cruz — a figure detested on the left — but rather was one more entrant in a sprawling presidential primary. Mr. O’Rourke’s money will, at least for now, quiet some of those skeptics: In a single day online, he raised nearly a quarter of what Barack Obama, then a senator, did in the entire first quarter of 2007. Now the question is whether he can sustain that level of support. Mr. Sanders raised his first $10 million quickly in February, much of it in small contributions. There is no way to independently confirm either candidate’s initial contributions; Mr. O’Rourke, Mr. Sanders and the rest of the presidential hopefuls must file fund-raising reports at the end of March. Those first-quarter filings will be made public on April 15. Mr. Sanders sought to capitalize Monday on Mr. O’Rourke’s early haul, emailing supporters to highlight his rival’s fund-raising. ”Beto O’Rourke announced that he raised more money than us on the first day of his presidential campaign,” Mr. Sanders wrote, before asking for additional contributions. The senator also wrote that he “more than likely had a lot more individual donations” than Mr. O’Rourke. Mr. Sanders did not offer any evidence, but he released his total number of donors in the first 24 hours of his campaign — 223,047 — and Mr. O’Rourke declined to do so. Few other candidates have trumpeted their initial financial success, in part because they knew that Mr. Sanders would tap into his loyal network of support from his 2016 presidential race and post a large figure. The campaign of Senator Kamala Harris of California, however, did say she raised $1.5 million in the first day after announcing her candidacy in January. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] Mr. O’Rourke’s aides would not say what their average contribution was or how many total donors contributed within the first 24 hours of his bid. As in his Senate race, he did not accept any money from political action committees. After announcing his candidacy, Mr. O’Rourke spent three days in Iowa, focusing on counties President Trump carried in 2016, before heading to Wisconsin, part of a multistate Midwestern tour.   ", "id": "5c8f7a8e49f0eacbf105da2f", "date": "2019-03-18T11:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "As Beto O’Rourke Weighs 2020 Run, Democrats Chafe at His Go-It-Alone Style", "full_text": " For a moment in August, an event hall in Texas teemed with hope, taquitos and unity. It was a border-town stop for Beto O’Rourke’s Senate campaign, but another Democratic politician commanded particular attention: Gina Ortiz Jones, a history-making congressional candidate — gay, Filipina-American, an Iraq war veteran — hoping to turn a majority-Hispanic district blue. “Really special person,” Mr. O’Rourke said, as Ms. Jones stood and waved. But soon, a county chairwoman posed an uncomfortable question. Mr. O’Rourke had not endorsed Ms. Jones. In fact, he had elevated her Republican opponent, Representative Will Hurd, with frequent praise and, most memorably, a live-streamed bipartisan road trip that helped jump-start their midterm campaigns. Would Mr. O’Rourke support the Democrat? He would not. “This is a place where my politics and my job and my commitment to this country come into conflict,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “I’m going to put country over party.” Some supporters of Ms. Jones saw it differently: Beto O’Rourke was once again putting Beto O’Rourke first. Five months later, as Mr. O’Rourke considers a run for president, his decision not to back Ms. Jones lays bare the go-it-alone streak that has defined his career, separating him from a modern Democratic Party that has prized near-uniform opposition to Republicans in Washington. While supporters view his above-the-fray message as the foundation of his appeal, he has left important Democratic constituencies wondering if he can be fully trusted as an ally. “Beto-first politics,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, a Democratic operative who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016. “He was concerned about Beto. I’m not sure he was concerned about building the future of Democratic politics.” In Texas’ 23rd Congressional District, his choice was more than symbolic. Mr. Hurd won by fewer than 1,000 votes, and many voters and local activists hold Mr. O’Rourke — whose success helped lift down-ballot candidates across the state — largely responsible for Ms. Jones’s defeat. “All I kept thinking was, wait, Beto is supposed to be helping us because he’s a Democrat,” said Rosey R. Abuabara, the leader of TX-23 Indivisible, which worked to oust Mr. Hurd. “I really felt like Beto was just getting in my way.” Mr. O’Rourke’s aides noted that his campaign — and its sprawling grass-roots operation — had been enormously helpful to the party’s cause, sharing voter information with fellow Democrats, opening hundreds of campaign offices and inviting other candidates to speak at his well-attended events. “Beto fully invested in building the future of Democratic politics across Texas,” his spokesman, Chris Evans, said in an email, adding that the campaign’s efforts would serve as a foundation “for all future Democratic campaigns in the state.” Yet even some admirers of Mr. O’Rourke have struggled to reconcile the snub of Ms. Jones, particularly in a year when female and nonwhite candidates like her helped lift Democrats to a House majority. Though Mr. O’Rourke stayed neutral, Ms. Jones drew high-wattage help in the race, including from prominent Texas Democrats like Julián Castro, the former housing secretary who is running for president, and Wendy Davis, the former candidate for governor and abortion-rights activist. Asked whether Mr. O’Rourke had a special responsibility to support a female candidate of color in this Democratic moment, Ms. Davis sounded almost anguished. “It’s really hard to say,” she said, adding that she did not mean to “back-seat drive” a friend’s decision-making. “I would feel that special duty. I personally would feel that. Beto’s not me, and I’m not Beto.” Mr. O’Rourke’s very presence as a would-be presidential contender for 2020 is an issue of heated debate within the party. He is a prolific fund-raiser who proved he can energize younger voters, and some early polls place him third behind Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders, well ahead of many more decorated politicians. But he is also a relatively inexperienced lawmaker who lost his Senate race against Ted Cruz. For close watchers of Mr. O’Rourke’s rise, his approach to Ms. Jones’s contest captured the twin pillars of his political worldview: He has an instinct for performative campaigning, reaching for multiplatform connection to voters but often lurching toward extreme oversharing. (Mr. O’Rourke was widely mocked recently after turning the camera on his own dental appointment.) And he has often defied the wishes of his fellow Democrats, especially traditional party leaders, who have eyed him warily since he challenged a Democratic incumbent in 2012 to reach Congress in the first place. Through a fluke of weather, timing and internet trendsetting, Mr. Hurd sits at the intersection of it all. Until March 2017, he and Mr. O’Rourke had been friendly enough as district neighbors, but never especially close. Then, after a snowstorm grounded their flights from Texas to Washington, Mr. O’Rourke suggested they drive instead — and record themselves for all 1,600 miles, answering questions from followers along the way. Alone in their rented Chevy Impala, they sang along to Willie Nelson, hashed out health care and trade policy and made a late-night doughnut run in Tennessee, attracting hundreds of thousands of viewers and wide-scale media coverage. Newt Gingrich called in to salute them. Mark Zuckerberg chimed in approvingly on Facebook. “Our party leadership is probably not super excited that we’re doing this,” Mr. O’Rourke said at one point. He was half right. Democrats in Washington, who had eyed Mr. Hurd’s seat as a prime pickup opportunity after Mrs. Clinton carried the district in 2016, winced at the sight of Mr. O’Rourke bolstering Mr. Hurd’s reputation for bipartisanship. Republicans were delighted to have a high-profile showcase for Mr. Hurd’s personality and moderate image. His congenial political brand helped him establish a consistent lead over Ms. Jones in private polling, giving pause to some national groups, like the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, about investing in the race. “It was a huge boost for us,” Matt Gorman, the communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee during the midterms, said of the road trip. “That thing went totally viral.” Mark McKinnon, a veteran of Texas politics who was an adviser to George W. Bush, said by email that the road trip became a “life preserver for Hurd and launchpad for Beto.” Mr. O’Rourke and his team seemed to recognize this. The ride registered as his campaign’s unofficial kickoff. And he was quick to invoke his relationship with Mr. Hurd, to deflect attacks from Mr. Cruz that he was too far left for Texas, and to burnish his self-styled standing as a high-minded antidote to the Capitol’s seemingly intransigent partisanship. “I know how disappointing it is to people,” Mr. O’Rourke said in an interview last summer, explaining his decision not to support Ms. Jones. “It’s disappointing for very legitimate, really important reasons. Like, I also want to be in the majority.” He added that Ms. Jones would make an excellent congresswoman if elected. Party officials and activists kept up the pressure, cornering him at rallies and fund-raisers, including one in San Antonio where Mr. O’Rourke raised his right hand in a mock ceremony and pledged not to make Mr. Hurd “look cool” even as he refused to oppose him. “Basically I told him he needed to dance with who brung him,” said Mary Bell Lockhart, the chairwoman of the Brewster County Democratic Party. “And it was primarily Democrats.” Mr. O’Rourke’s supporters insist he can be counted on to pursue Democratic priorities, while noting that his relationship with Mr. Hurd allowed the two to collaborate on shared causes like border policy. (Mr. Hurd has been a rare Republican opposing the construction of a wall.) But Mr. O’Rourke’s history with the party is more complicated than it appeared in a binary race against Mr. Cruz, whom Democrats could generally agree to loathe. He was known in Washington for declining to pay dues to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. In 2016, he voted against Nancy Pelosi to lead the Democratic caucus, supporting Tim Ryan, a centrist from Ohio. “We are all products of our environment,” said Pete Gallego, a former Democratic congressman who lost his seat to Mr. Hurd in 2014. “He has found tremendous success by shaking things up and by not being part of the party apparatus.” After Ms. Jones won the Democratic nomination for the seat, she and Mr. O’Rourke had a cordial conversation by telephone. Mr. O’Rourke neither pledged to help Ms. Jones nor told her directly that he would be withholding his support, according to people briefed on the call. In late June, Ronald Smith, a liberal activist in Mr. Hurd’s district, emailed Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign demanding to know: “Has Beto endorsed Gina Ortiz Jones? If not, when will he endorse her?” Mr. Smith said he wanted “a team player for my next Democratic senator.” An O’Rourke campaign representative offered a noncommittal reply in an email reviewed by The New York Times: “We are evaluating some local and regional races at this time.” Ms. Jones, who has said she is likely to run again in 2020, declined through an aide to be interviewed about Mr. O’Rourke. Mr. O’Rourke’s defenders note that several Democrats benefited from his stronger-than-expected showing against Mr. Cruz, helping the party flip congressional seats in the Houston and Dallas areas. But in no other swing district was Mr. O’Rourke’s allegiance in question. Mr. O’Rourke carried the 23rd District even as Mr. Hurd narrowly won re-election there. In the section of the district that spills into Bexar County, home to San Antonio, Mr. O’Rourke outperformed Mr. Cruz by about 3,900 votes, a review of precinct-level election results found. The same set of precincts voted for Mr. Hurd over Ms. Jones by nearly 4,700 votes. Mr. Hurd won the district by just over 900 votes. “We know exactly what the Beto bump was and it was amazing,” said Mr. Smith, the liberal activist. “But my assessment was, for Democrats, as well as we did this last election cycle, we would have had one more seat if Beto had been on board with Gina Ortiz Jones.” Kitty Bennett contributed research.    ", "id": "5c43444b3a125f5075c054ad", "date": "2019-01-19T15:37:42+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Takes Border Wall Fight to El Paso; Beto O’Rourke Fires Back", "full_text": " EL PASO — President Trump came to this bustling border city on Monday to rally support for his wall with Mexico. But he was met by El Paso’s favorite son, Beto O’Rourke, who denounced Mr. Trump’s claim that walls reduce violent crime and led the city’s residents in his own boisterous show of opposition. The dueling rallies, just across the Rio Grande from Mexico, offered a vivid snapshot of the national debate over immigration, as well as a tantalizing early glimpse of the rivalry between Mr. Trump and Mr. O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who is now considering a challenge to the president in 2020. As he mulls a run for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has seized on immigration as a defining issue. With a flair for political theater that even Mr. Trump took note of, Mr. O’Rourke addressed a crowd less than a mile from the El Paso County Coliseum, where the president spoke to thousands of cheering supporters. “We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” Mr. O’Rourke said, speaking to supporters within earshot of Mr. Trump’s rally. “We have so much to give, so much to show the rest of the country.” Inside the arena, Mr. Trump was flanked by banners that said, “Finish the Wall,” and he faced a sea of red and blue signs urging him to “Build the Wall.” “We need the wall, and it has to be built,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “Today we started building the big beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande.” Mr. Trump’s rally, his first since an acrimonious debate over funding of the wall shut down the government, came as negotiators in Washington appeared to reach a deal, potentially averting another shutdown. The president said he was told about the agreement just before taking the stage. “We probably have some good news,” Mr. Trump said, almost grudgingly, before adding, “I don’t even want to hear about it.” In an interview with Laura Ingraham of Fox News that aired at the end of the rally, Mr. Trump seemed more concerned with talking about the number of supporters in the crowd on Monday night than about an update on negotiations with Congress. The president said he had had the option of receiving a briefing on the negotiations or going on camera. “It was between the deal and you, and I had to choose you,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re talking, and we’ll see what happens.” The president’s choice of El Paso to make his argument was curious on several grounds. Violent crime actually declined for years in this vibrant immigrant city across the river from Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, before the Army Corps of Engineers began building a fence in 2008. It rose during the two years before and after the barrier was constructed. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] A Democratic stronghold in a mostly Republican state, El Paso has long been one of the safer cities of its size in the United States — a trend that local law enforcement officials attribute to the residents and community policing, not to the border fence. Still, if Mr. Trump wanted to force the debate with Democrats, he could hardly have chosen a better place. The presence of Mr. O’Rourke, who represented the city in Congress before he gave up his House seat to run unsuccessfully for the Senate, guaranteed the president the kind of confrontation he relishes, even if the two men did not come face to face. Mr. Trump lost little time in ridiculing Mr. O’Rourke, describing him as “a young man who’s got very little going for himself, except he’s got a good first name.” “He’s supposed to win in order to run,” the president added. “Beto was defeated.” Mr. Trump’s discursive style delighted his crowd, though protesters heckled him more frequently than at other rallies since he became president. After one protester was escorted out of the arena to a chorus of boos from the crowd, the president asked, “Is there any place that’s more fun to be than a Trump rally?” Mr. Trump has insisted that El Paso was an example of why a wall is necessary. “Walls work,” he said, repeating his assertion that the crime rate went down in El Paso after the border wall was built. “Thanks to a border wall with Mexico,” he said, El Paso is “one of America’s safest cities.” Mr. O’Rourke debunked that claim on Friday in a lengthy post on the website Medium, in which he also tried to set out an alternative blueprint for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws. El Paso’s success, he said, repudiated Mr. Trump’s call for a border wall. “He will promise a wall and will repeat his lies about the dangers that immigrants pose,” Mr. O’Rourke said of the president. Mr. O’Rourke has spotlighted his heavily Latino hometown on Facebook and on other social media sites as an example of what works in immigration policy. A short walk from the coliseum, protesters gathered to march in a show of dissent against the president. Many held signs criticizing Mr. Trump; buttons, signs and stickers proclaiming “Beto 2020” could be seen throughout the crowd. “Trump is an insult to my proud military family,” said Isabel Harris, 60, an immigrant from Mexico who held a sign honoring her son Martin Ferrufino, 32, a disabled veteran of the Iraq war. Ms. Harris said Mr. Trump’s efforts to curb immigration was an affront to her son, who crossed the border illegally as a child. Later, he attended high school in El Paso and joined the Army. “My son sacrificed for this country, and this is how he’s treated? How we are treated?” Ms. Harris said in Spanish. Nearby, two El Paso-born brothers, Adam and Andrew Peña, also joined the protest against Mr. Trump. “Trump thinks he can rule us by fear,” said Adam Peña, 31, a lawyer who lives in San Diego and traveled to El Paso to voice his opposition. “I’m here to prove him wrong.” Mr. Trump got the idea to focus on El Paso from an exchange with the Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, who told him the wall drastically reduced the city’s crime rate and therefore served as a persuasive argument for building one along more of the southwestern border. “After that fence went up and separated Juárez, which still has an extremely high crime rate, the crime rates in El Paso are now some of the lowest in the country,” Mr. Paxton said. “So we know it works.” While it is true that Juárez has a much higher crime rate than El Paso — and while the fence did cut down on illegal crossings — the rest of his statement is, at best, highly misleading. The El Paso Times, which analyzed three decades of statistics from the F.B.I. and the local police, found that crime peaked in 1993, with more than 6,500 violent crimes recorded. It then dropped by 34 percent over the next 13 years. The crime rate then increased by 17 percent from 2006 to 2011. Construction of the wall began in 2008, under President George W. Bush, and was completed in mid-2009, during the Obama administration. Crime has ebbed and flowed within a fairly narrow band since then. Local officials, including Mayor Dee Margo, a Republican, have spoken out against Mr. Trump’s claims. Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who recently won Mr. O’Rourke’s former seat, has demanded that the president apologize and meet with migrant families seeking asylum in the United States. Among lawmakers who represent border districts, there is remarkably little support for a wall. Yet Mr. Trump has been undeterred. He repeated grisly stories of violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants — never mind that the crime rate among immigrants is no higher than among native-born residents. He said a wall would stem the flow of deadly opioids and other illicit drugs into the United States — another dubious assertion, given that most drugs arrive at legal ports of entry. Mr. Trump’s aides are trying to build momentum after last week’s State of the Union address, which they believe was well received by his political base. Unlike some of his predecessors, the president did not immediately leave on a road trip to sell the messages in the address. But he has been eager to return to rallies, which energize him and filled up his calendar before the midterm elections. Mr. Trump dismissed those who disputed his facts about the wall, saying the mayor of El Paso was “full of crap,” even if he was a Republican. “People of El Paso,” he asked, “am I right?” Emily Cochrane and Katie Rogers contributed reporting from Washington. OpinionRichard Parker ", "id": "5c61e8423a125f5075c09248", "date": "2019-02-11T21:23:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Is 46. Bernie Sanders Is 77. Does Age Matter Anymore for Democrats?", "full_text": " KEOKUK, Iowa — Diana Martinez, 70, looked at Beto O’Rourke, 46, and made her choice: It was time for Generation X to fix this country. “Doesn’t he remind you of Kennedy?” Ms. Martinez said as Mr. O’Rourke offered firm handshakes and music recommendations to a coffeehouse crowd. “He’s young. That’s what it’s going to take to try and beat Trump.” Some closer to Mr. O’Rourke’s age were less convinced. Standing near the back, Erin Cruz, 41, sized up Mr. O’Rourke — and then praised the septuagenarian socialist senator, Bernie Sanders. “I’m looking for someone to be as progressive as Bernie,” Ms. Cruz said, tugging on a Red Hot Chili Peppers shirt. Actually, she amended, perhaps just Bernie himself. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Mr. O’Rourke entered the Democratic primary race this past week with an aspirational pitch and a semi-improvisational tour of Iowa, with a Hawkeyes baseball cap and bilingual profanity on the stump, broadcasting his message of generational uplift and immediately thrusting age into the main currents of the 2020 race. The contenders leading in initial polls, Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., will be 79 and 78 by Inauguration Day 2021. President Trump will be 74. Yet as party activists begin to appraise the field, they are already grappling with whether to once again embrace a younger candidate who reflects the future or shrug off age and elevate a veteran politician who most clearly represents their simultaneous craving for undiluted liberalism and someone who can thwart Mr. Trump. If history is a guide, Mr. O’Rourke and other Democrats betting on a youthful appeal — like Cory Booker, 49; Julián Castro, 44; or Pete Buttigieg and Tulsi Gabbard, both 37 — should have an advantage. Of the last five Democratic presidents, only Lyndon B. Johnson, who ascended to the job because of the assassination of a 46-year-old president, was older than 52 when he was first elected president. The roster of Democratic losers in modern times is littered with nominees who were neither young nor new to the political scene. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But for many in the party, dedication to this critical component of past success — putting forward a new face — is being tested in the 2020 race by twin impulses: the devotion to Mr. Sanders among voters many decades younger than him, who share his belief that American society is rife with inequities that will not be solved by candidates like Mr. O’Rourke, and an overriding desire among Democrats to defeat a president they believe is a menace to democracy. Supporters of Mr. Sanders believe he offers transformational change — the promise of not merely ousting President Trump but also remaking the country into a more just place — and brings experience that would help him survive a general election and expand the electorate. At the same time, moderates in the party are tempted by Mr. Biden, wagering that the political equivalent of comfort food to America may prove the safest recipe. This combination of a primary electorate that is at once hungry for structural, even radical, reform and deeply nervous about nominating someone too callow to defeat Mr. Trump poses perhaps the most serious challenge to a candidate like Mr. O’Rourke. He shuns ideological labels, even chafing at “progressive” in the past; often avoids being pinned down on policy; and has no experience in the crucible of presidential politics. “I know Bernie has a laid-out plan for Medicare and free tuition,” said Austin Palmer, a 25-year-old South Carolinian who went to see Mr. Sanders vow political revolution Thursday night in North Charleston. “Beto has made some broad statements so far.” Mr. Palmer invoked the recent scandal involving parents committing bribery to get their children into elite colleges, shaking his head at what he sees as a rotten society that must be razed, not reformed. Yet he also indicated that he was most enthusiastic about Mr. Sanders because of the polls he recalls showing that the Democrats’ 2016 runner-up would have defeated Mr. Trump. “I’m really concerned about being able to beat Trump,” he said. “That’s my big worry.” Mr. O’Rourke has ample time to flesh out his agenda — he spoke fondly, if not always specifically, this past week of “bold, progressive ideas” — and he enjoys considerable assets: a history of record-shattering online fund-raising, the appeal of celebrity in a country besotted by fame and a grip on the imagination of a party that loves to fall in love after his star-making-if-campaign-losing Senate race in Texas. But he is facing a 2020 campaign and election that differ considerably from when Democrats last rewarded a generational argument in a presidential race by nominating then-Senator Barack Obama. “There’s still a big part of the party that wants to fall in love, and there’s another part of the party that will settle for anything that will beat Trump,” said Senator Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut, at 45 the youngest Democratic senator. “I think that’s a real, daily tension in the party that’s going to play out in real time.” There could ultimately be a best-of-both-worlds solution — “It just happened that in 2008 and 2012 we fell in love with the most electable candidate,” Mr. Murphy recalled — but like many Democrats, he could only guess for now. “I would generally make the case that the Democratic Party should always be nominating the next-generation candidate,” he said, “except I’m not sure any of the old rules apply.” The evidence was conflicting at Mr. Sanders’s South Carolina rally on Thursday. As unfathomable as it may be to the moderate wing of the Democratic Party, many in attendance made the case for Mr. Sanders as much on his electability as his liberal platform. “I want to support someone who I think really has a chance of winning,” said Brandon Greene, a 27-year-old student and pastor. “We can’t take a gamble on a new candidate.” And Tasha Horton, a 45-year-old real estate broker with college-age children who “love the Bern,” allowed that her “love is for Kamala but strategically it’s either Bernie or Biden.” Ms. Horton, who went to the same church gymnasium recently to see Senator Kamala Harris, 54, added: “We have to think that way. You can’t think with your heart.” Yet even as Mr. Greene and Ms. Horton, who are both African-American, made the case for Mr. Sanders, the bulk of the audience reflected limits in his appeal: In a city where nearly half of the population is black, the rally attendees were overwhelmingly white. As a soloist sang gospel music that doubled as a filibuster for the tardy senator, some in the crowd noodled as if it were a Phish jam rather than an organ-backed hymn about joy coming in the morning. Many of the voters at the Sanders event said they were open to other candidates; they just wanted to hear “about specifics,” as Mr. Greene put it, and be convinced that a younger alternative could prove viable. Still, as Mr. Sanders took the stage and thundered against economic inequality, excoriating the compensation packages of individual health care executives, the contrast between his unsparing indictment and comprehensive agenda and Mr. O’Rourke’s frequent generalities could not have been starker. “I want to do something that very few public figures will do, and I want to tell you exactly what justice means to me and I hope to you,” the senator told his youthful, sign-waving charges. In Iowa, meanwhile, the newest candidate in the race was casting his political worldview as a kind of high-minded pragmatism, describing bipartisanship as a necessity during his six years in the House minority. “I made it my mission to ensure that the perfect never becomes the enemy of the good,” Mr. O’Rourke said to cheers in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, boasting of a veterans’ health care measure signed into law by Mr. Trump. He frames his events as two-sided conversations, at times prodding voters to say how they might solve the challenges they cite. “Thoughts? Ideas? Suggestions? Advice?” he asked high school students in Fort Madison. When pressed, by voters and reporters, for more details, Mr. O’Rourke has equivocated or vacillated on several policy questions. Asked about health care at the first of eight events on Thursday, Mr. O’Rourke steered clear of “Medicare for all,” the progressive proposal he once endorsed without apparent reservation, calling more generally for a “guaranteed, high-quality” system instead. “I think that’s one of the ways to ensure that we get to guaranteed, high-quality health care for every single American,” he said of “Medicare for all” in Washington, Iowa. “I’m no longer sure that that’s the fastest way to get there.” Asked at another event about reparations, a growing issue in the Democratic race, Mr. O’Rourke held forth for four minutes — on John Lewis, Martin Luther King, the arc of systemic racism — without answering the question of where he stood. But Mr. O’Rourke’s lack of detail does not dissuade his most ardent supporters. As with Mr. Obama’s, the Texan’s admirers are galvanized by a message that, with leadership that can bring people of good will together across party lines, a better day for the country awaits. “Trump appeals to the worst of America, candidates like Beto appeal to the best of America,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, 48, a Democratic leader who may become the first Generation X House speaker someday and has not backed anyone in the race. Across eastern Iowa, Mr. O’Rourke encountered many young people excited by his candidacy, arriving in T-shirts from his Senate race or, in one case, a customized “Betomania” button featuring the candidate with a guitar. “Everything about him is an inspiration,” said Angela Scott, 27, after meeting (and high-fiving) Mr. O’Rourke at a sub shop in Burlington, Iowa. “You can’t help but like that man.” In other moments, though, his audiences included a striking dichotomy: enchanted older voters, convinced that younger voters would flock to Mr. O’Rourke and rescue the party from Mr. Trump, and younger voters excited by someone else. As Mr. O’Rourke spoke in Mount Pleasant, standing on a cafe counter, a cluster of teenage fans of Mr. Sanders watched in the wings, curious about Mr. O’Rourke but unmoved by any suggestion that Mr. Sanders is not a man for the times. “That’s ageism,” said Garrick Dodson, a self-described socialist progressive who will turn 18 next month. “I don’t have a problem voting for an old person I agree with more than a young person.” Mr. Dodson and his friends suggested that their elders underestimated the boiling anger of the teen and 20-something generation, aghast at what they see as their forebears’ indifference to climate change and student loan debt. “Gen Z, baby,” Mr. Dodson said. “Gen Z is coming,” warned a peer, Madison Brady, 18. “We’re so angry.” Matt Flegenheimer reported from Keokuk, Iowa, and Jonathan Martin from North Charleston, S.C.    ", "id": "5c8cbb7249f0eacbf105d6a1", "date": "2019-03-16T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "State of the Union, Global Warming, Beto O’Rourke: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A day after President Trump warned that “ridiculous partisan investigations” could harm the nation, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Democrats would not be cowed by Mr. Trump’s “all-out threat” to drop their inquiries into the administration. Among the gears of oversight the Democrats set in motion: The House Intelligence Committee reopened and significantly broadened the Russia-Trump campaign investigation that Republicans closed last year. “It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in that,” Ms. Pelosi said. Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address itself put the Democratic resurgence on full display, our chief Washington correspondent writes. That was particularly evident with Democratic congresswomen who created a sea of white. We fact-checked some of the claims the president made, including his use of scary imagery of abortion that scientists say is incorrect. _____ 2. 2018 was the fourth-hottest year on record. The only warmer years? 2017, 2016 and 2015. NASA scientists announced that the Earth’s average surface temperature for the year was more than 1 degree Celsius, or 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, above the average of the late 19th century — among the highest in nearly 140 years of record-keeping. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.” _____ 3. The crisis in Virginia’s state Democratic Party is deepening. Gov. Ralph Northam has not been seen in public since Sunday after coming under siege for a racist photo in his medical school yearbook. Today, his line of succession was shaken. The woman who said Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax assaulted her in 2004 issued a statement with a searing account of the encounter. Hours earlier, Virginia’s attorney general, Mark Herring, above, admitted that he too had put on blackface, when he was an undergraduate at the University of Virginia in 1980. If all three were to resign without immediate replacements, the governor’s post would fall to the Republican House speaker, Kirk Cox. _____ 4. The sexual abuse of nuns has been the Catholic Church’s long overshadowed scandal, until now. Pope Francis’ acknowledgment of the problem comes after decades of allegations and seeming Vatican inaction, which has now collided with the #MeToo era. “I was so happy,” said Lucetta Scaraffia, the author of an article denouncing the abuse of nuns and religious lay women by priests that was published this month in Women Church World, a magazine distributed alongside the Vatican’s newspaper. Above, Pope Francis being greeted by a group of nuns at the Vatican last week. Experts say there is no shortage of factors contributing to the abuse, its cover-up and the lack of action inside the Vatican, including the medieval idea that holy men are preyed upon by seductive temptresses. _____ 5. In the last two weeks, thousands of people have been streaming out of the Syrian village of Baghuz, the last speck of land under Islamic State control in Iraq and Syria. As Syrian government forces and U.S.-backed fighters close in, the militants are now trapped in an area about the size of Central Park. The military operation to take Baghuz has stalled as commanders negotiate an end to the siege with the Islamic State, according to officials. Above, a woman in her 20s was buried after she died trying to flee the area. Our correspondent is on the ground with a photographer for what could be the final days of the Islamic State’s caliphate in the region where it was born. She notes, however, that the group still has many fighters there and that it is flourishing elsewhere, like the Philippines and Nigeria. _____ 6. Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who drew national attention in his failed Senate race last year, is trying to decide if he wants to run for president. So he has been driving around the country, introducing himself to strangers. But he is alone, and, in his words, in and out of “a funk.” In an hourlong phone interview, he said he was reminded of a time more than 20 years ago, when he was a 23-year-old, live-in nanny in Manhattan and reeling from the breakup of his punk band and with his girlfriend, above. “I just didn’t ever want to feel like that or be in that place or that position again,” he said. “So that lately has felt kind of strange, maybe with some echoes.” _____ 6. Around noon today, we published an article by our tech columnist, Kevin Roose, on the furor over pay practices that drew accusations of tip theft at two app-based delivery companies, Instacart and DoorDash. Around 3 p.m., one of them announced it was halting the practice. In a blog post, Apoorva Mehta, Instacart’s chief executive, admitted that the company had “fallen short” with a policy put in place last year that applied workers’ tips toward guaranteed minimum payments of $10 per order, rather than letting the tips be added to the $10. Above, an Instacart personal shopper checks his shopping list. Separately, Spotify said it would buy two podcast companies. The company’s chief executive predicted that around 20 percent of all Spotify listening would eventually involve something other than music. _____ 7. It’s rare for a fan to be killed by a ball at a baseball game. But it happened at Dodger Stadium in August. Jana Brody’s mother died four days after she was struck on the head by a foul ball. Ms. Brody compared the ball to a bullet, and is now demanding higher netting to protect fans. Netting had been extended to within 70 feet of the plate, but that was just shy of her mother’s loge-level seat behind home plate. The peril comes both from new stadiums designed to bring fans closer to the action and this era’s bigger, faster and stronger players. “These guys hit balls hard, and they’re throwing 100-mile-an-hour pitches,” Ms. Brody said. _____ 9. Interesting news from our science desk: Scientists long believed that the slender, nectar-sipping beaks of hummingbirds evolved to fit nectar-bearing flowers, but some have been shaped into dangerous weapons. A decade of research shows that males use their beaks like swords to fend off rival mates. Check out the video. We also take a look at Earth’s mismatched auroras. The Northern and Southern Lights come from opposite ends of the planet’s magnetic field but are hardly mirror images. Space physicists have recently discovered the cause of the auroral asymmetry: the angle at which the sun’s solar wind and magnetic field approaches Earth. Also, did a seal eat your vacation photos? You can get them back: A New Zealand scientist found your USB drive in seal poop. _____ 10. Finally, we end with relationship advice from an unlikely duo. Walt Frazier, left, and Mike Breen, right, have been the New York Knicks’ broadcasting team for 20 years. Mr. Frazier, an All-Star guard and former Knick, is known for his colorful wardrobe and lyrical analysis. Mr. Breen is a lifelong Knicks fan whose sports idol was, and still is, Mr. Frazier. They shared the keys to maintaining their rock-solid relationship: mutual respect and concern, laughing a lot and agreeing to disagree, for starters. “Mike’s the play-by-play man, and I’m the color analyst,” Mr. Frazier said. “I know that he always goes first, he leads and I follow. It’s no different than having a dance partner.” Have a rock-solid night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c5b6ac83a125f5075c0863e", "date": "2019-02-06T23:16:22+0000"}]