[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris, Progressive Prosecutor", "full_text": " letter A civil rights advocate, taking issue with an Op-Ed article, defends the senator’s record. To the Editor: Re Lara Bazelon’s Op-Ed article about Senator Kamala Harris’s prosecutorial record (nytimes.com, Jan. 17): As a civil rights and racial justice and juvenile justice advocate in the Bay Area for more than 20 years, I would like to shed some light on Senator Kamala Harris’s record as a progressive prosecutor.  As district attorney, she was on the front end of changing the way we view incarceration. I used to run a program she created in 2005, Back on Track. It pioneered job training for nonviolent, first-time offenders. This didn’t just mean helping those who were formerly incarcerated. It diverted young people who were largely arrested for crack offenses into jobs, substance abuse treatment and apprenticeship programs, and got them housing and child care.  In other counties, those charged with these same crimes were getting sentences of 20 years. It was revolutionary and the recidivism rate among graduates was only 10 percent, far lower than the state average.  As Senator Harris has written and said before, she became a prosecutor to give the job a perspective it had sorely lacked: a voice for the voiceless and vulnerable. And that’s what she did.  She enacted the first statewide implicit bias and procedural justice training in the country and made her officers wear body cameras. She started pattern and practice investigations into discriminatory actions. She demanded that data on in-custody deaths and police shootings be made public to ensure accountability. For decades, Kamala Harris has fought to make our system more just. I give her credit and hope that others will look at the totality of her record of reform before jumping to conclusions. Lateefah Simon Oakland, Calif. The writer is president of the Akonadi Foundation and an advocate for civil rights and racial justice.", "id": "5c4277b23a125f5075c053c6", "date": "2019-01-19T01:04:47+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris’s First Campaign Policy: A Raise for Teachers", "full_text": " Senator Kamala Harris of California announced a plan Tuesday to heavily invest federal money into teacher pay, the first policy rollout of her campaign for the Democratic nomination for president. Ms. Harris’s proposal, which was billed as the “largest federal investment in teacher pay in U.S. history,” marks the next step for a campaign that began in February before a crowd of 20,000 supporters. [Join the conversation around the 2020 election: Sign up here for the On Politics newsletter.] In a statement detailing the proposed increase in teacher pay, Ms. Harris said that, under her administration, the Department of Education would create incentivized baselines for teacher salaries that local school districts would have to meet in order to receive certain federal funds. The average teacher in America would receive a $13,500 pay increase, the campaign said. “We have got to think about how we can bridge the gap between helplessness and hope,” Ms. Harris said at a campaign rally in Houston on Saturday, where she unveiled early portions of the teacher pay plan. “We don’t need walls. We need bridges. And that’s what we need in the next president of the United States — someone who knows how to build bridges, not walls.” The plan, which would cost more than $300 billion over 10 years, would be paid for by “strengthening the estate tax,” the Harris campaign said. The Republican-led tax reform that passed under President Trump adjusted the threshold by which the government can collect taxes from the estates of the wealthiest Americans; Ms. Harris’s proposal would reverse that change, her campaign said, in addition to closing loopholes. Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont progressive who is also running for president, released a plan to raise the estate tax earlier this year that would generate more than $2 trillion, according to estimates released at the time. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Harris received considerable praise from education professionals for her proposal. Arne Duncan, the former education secretary under President Barack Obama, posted on Twitter, “Radical idea: pay the professionals we entrust to teach, nurture and mentor our children a better salary!” And Lily Eskelsen García, the president of the National Education Association, said, “This should be central to the 2020 conversation.” Teacher strikes have roiled the nation over the past year, in states governed by Republicans such as Oklahoma and Arizona and in liberal bastions like California. Though the issue has cut across culture and demographics, Ms. Harris made a particular point to highlight how low teacher wages are particularly harmful for students who are racial minorities, whose school districts then have a harder time attracting qualified educators. “You can judge a society by the way it treats its children,” Ms. Harris said in Houston. “And one of the greatest expressions of love that a society can give its children is educating those children with the resources they need.”   ", "id": "5c99f88249f0eacbf105f118", "date": "2019-03-26T10:00:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris, a Front-Runner", "full_text": " She’s a serious candidate. So focus on the substance of her campaign, not her chances. Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. So take her candidacy seriously. But once you’ve done so, I would encourage you to mostly ignore whether she is likely to win and focus your attention instead on whether she deserves to win. Make your own decisions about the candidates, rather than trying to guess what other voters will do. Harris has signaled that she is likely to run a more thematically broad-based, less focused campaign than some others. Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders (if he runs) will focus on inequality and economic justice, for example. Joe Biden would probably emphasize his experience and electability. Kirsten Gillibrand has centered her pitch partly on #MeToo. The Harris campaign, for now, is looking less specific — which has both downsides and benefits. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] “Nobody is living their life through the lens of one issue,” she said yesterday. “And I think what people want is leadership that sees them through the complexity of their lives and pays equal attention to their needs. Let’s not put people in a box.” Her policy agenda looks fairly typical for a Democrat today. One of her main proposals is a large package of tax cuts and credits for middle-class and poor families. The Atlantic’s Annie Lowrey has reviewed the proposal positively and Slate’s Jordan Weissmann has reviewed it negatively. The core of Harris’s record is her six years as California’s attorney general. In a recent Times Op-Ed, the writer and legal advocate Lara Bazelon criticized Harris for supporting unjust imprisonment. Another California-based advocate, Lateefah Simon, responded to that piece with a defense of Harris. Briahna Gray of The Intercept argued that Harris’s specific performance was not the most relevant issue: “The problem isn’t that Harris was an especially bad prosecutor. She made positive contributions as well — encouraging education and re-entry programs for ex-offenders, for instance. The problem, more precisely, is that she was ever a prosecutor at all. To become a prosecutor is to make a choice to align oneself with a powerful and fundamentally biased system.” My view is that Harris deserves to be treated as a front-runner. She has a fascinating personal story, and she has handled the national spotlight well in her first two years in the Senate. I’ll be interested now to see whether she can offer a compelling story about what ails the country — how we’ve come to suffer from fraying democracy, stagnant mass living standards and a violently warming planet — and what she will do to change our course. For more on her, see: Jim Geraghty in National Review, on “Twenty things you probably didn’t know about Kamala Harris,” which includes her handling of the mortgage crisis in California. Perry Bacon Jr. in FiveThirtyEight: “There may be no other candidate who better embodies how the modern Democratic Party has changed over the last few decades in identity and ideology … Post-Obama, the Democratic Party is increasingly the party of women and the ‘woke,’ and Harris’s biography and politics align well with where the party has moved.” Jennifer Rubin in The Washington Post: “Harris’s policy positions — Medicare for all, progressive tax reform, raise in the federal minimum wage, green energy, etc. — are not unique in a field with many progressive candidates. She is unique because of her biography — a daughter of immigrants from India and Jamaica, and spent years as a prosecutor and then state attorney general — and her personal appeal. Of those candidates already declared, she might be the most engaging and dynamic.” Reader responses Several readers responded to my column yesterday about the shutdown by pointing out the connection to organized labor. Paul Wortman, from Providence: “The shutdown is not [about] ‘the weakness of the resistance,’ but the weakness of the American labor movement. Labor has been under constant attack since the Reagan era with the firing of [air traffic controller] union members. Despite the strong labor market, government pay and benefits are much better than the private sector and workers are unwilling to risk an illegal strike and the fear of being fired.” A reader from Atlanta: “Unions, unions, and more unions. Over the decades unions have been decimated by right-to-work laws. And until they’re resurrected nothing will occur. Those European countries that would demonstrate are all heavily unionized, including government employees. They don’t demonstrate, they go on strike, and their employers suffer.” If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c47182c3a125f5075c05a70", "date": "2019-01-22T13:18:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Was Not a ‘Progressive Prosecutor’", "full_text": " The senator was often on the wrong side of history when she served as California’s attorney general.  Ms. Bazelon is a law professor and the former director of the Loyola Law School Project for the Innocent in Los Angeles. SAN FRANCISCO — With the growing recognition that prosecutors hold the keys to a fairer criminal justice system, the term “progressive prosecutor” has almost become trendy. This is how Senator Kamala Harris of California, a likely presidential candidate and a former prosecutor, describes herself. But she’s not.  Time after time, when progressives urged her to embrace criminal justice reforms as a district attorney and then the state’s attorney general, Ms. Harris opposed them or stayed silent. Most troubling, Ms. Harris fought tooth and nail to uphold wrongful convictions that had been secured through official misconduct that included evidence tampering, false testimony and the suppression of crucial information by prosecutors.  Consider her record as San Francisco’s district attorney from 2004 to 2011. Ms. Harris was criticized in 2010 for withholding information about a police laboratory technician who had been accused of “intentionally sabotaging” her work and stealing drugs from the lab. After a memo surfaced showing that Ms. Harris’s deputies knew about the technician’s wrongdoing and recent conviction, but failed to alert defense lawyers, a judge condemned Ms. Harris’s indifference to the systemic violation of the defendants’ constitutional rights.  Ms. Harris contested the ruling by arguing that the judge, whose husband was a defense attorney and had spoken publicly about the importance of disclosing evidence, had a conflict of interest. Ms. Harris lost. More than 600 cases handled by the corrupt technician were dismissed. Ms. Harris also championed state legislation under which parents whose children were found to be habitually truant in elementary school could be prosecuted, despite concerns that it would disproportionately affect low-income people of color. Ms. Harris was similarly regressive as the state’s attorney general. When a federal judge in Orange County ruled that the death penalty was unconstitutional in 2014, Ms. Harris appealed. In a public statement, she made the bizarre argument that the decision “undermines important protections that our courts provide to defendants.” (The approximately 740 men and women awaiting execution in California might disagree). In 2014, she declined to take a position on Proposition 47, a ballot initiative approved by voters, that reduced certain low-level felonies to misdemeanors. She laughed that year when a reporter asked if she would support the legalization of marijuana for recreational use. Ms. Harris finally reversed course in 2018, long after public opinion had shifted on the topic. In 2015, she opposed a bill requiring her office to investigate shootings involving officers. And she refused to support statewide standards regulating the use of body-worn cameras by police officers. For this, she incurred criticism from an array of left-leaning reformers, including Democratic state senators, the A.C.L.U. and San Francisco’s elected public defender. The activist Phelicia Jones, who had supported Ms. Harris for years, asked, “How many more people need to die before she steps in?” Worst of all, though, is Ms. Harris’s record in wrongful conviction cases. Consider George Gage, an electrician with no criminal record who was charged in 1999 with sexually abusing his stepdaughter, who reported the allegations years later. The case largely hinged on the stepdaughter’s testimony and Mr. Gage was convicted. Afterward, the judge discovered that the prosecutor had unlawfully held back potentially exculpatory evidence, including medical reports indicating that the stepdaughter had been repeatedly untruthful with law enforcement. Her mother even described her as “a pathological liar” who “lives her lies.”  In 2015, when the case reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, Ms. Harris’s prosecutors defended the conviction. They pointed out that Mr. Gage, while forced to act as his own lawyer, had not properly raised the legal issue in the lower court, as the law required.  The appellate judges acknowledged this impediment and sent the case to mediation, a clear signal for Ms. Harris to dismiss the case. When she refused to budge, the court upheld the conviction on that technicality. Mr. Gage is still in prison serving a 70-year sentence. That case is not an outlier. Ms. Harris also fought to keep Daniel Larsen in prison on a 28-year-to-life sentence for possession of a concealed weapon even though his trial lawyer was incompetent and there was compelling evidence of his innocence.  Relying on a technicality again, Ms. Harris argued that Mr. Larsen failed to raise his legal arguments in a timely fashion. (This time, she lost.) She also defended Johnny Baca’s conviction for murder even though judges found a prosecutor presented false testimony at the trial. She relented only after a video of the oral argument received national attention and embarrassed her office.  And then there’s Kevin Cooper, the death row inmate whose trial was infected by racism and corruption. He sought advanced DNA testing to prove his innocence, but Ms. Harris opposed it. (After The New York Times’s exposé of the case went viral, she reversed her position.) All this is a shame because the state’s top prosecutor has the power and the imperative to seek justice. In cases of tainted convictions, that means conceding error and overturning them. Rather than fulfilling that obligation, Ms. Harris turned legal technicalities into weapons so she could cement injustices.  In “The Truths We Hold,” Ms. Harris’s recently published memoir, she writes: “America has a deep and dark history of people using the power of the prosecutor as an instrument of injustice.” She adds, “I know this history well — of innocent men framed, of charges brought against people without sufficient evidence, of prosecutors hiding information that would exonerate defendants, of the disproportionate application of the law.” All too often, she was on the wrong side of that history.  It is true that politicians must make concessions to get the support of key interest groups. The fierce, collective opposition of law enforcement and local district attorney associations can be hard to overcome at the ballot box. But in her career, Ms. Harris did not barter or trade to get the support of more conservative law-and-order types; she gave it all away.  Of course, the full picture is more complicated. During her tenure as district attorney, Ms. Harris refused to seek the death penalty in a case involving the murder of a police officer. And she started a successful program that offered first-time nonviolent offenders a chance to have their charges dismissed if they completed a rigorous vocational training. As attorney general, she mandated implicit bias training and was awarded for her work in correcting a backlog in the testing of rape kits.  But if Kamala Harris wants people who care about dismantling mass incarceration and correcting miscarriages of justice to vote for her, she needs to radically break with her past.  A good first step would be to apologize to the wrongfully convicted people she has fought to keep in prison and to do what she can to make sure they get justice. She should start with George Gage. Lara Bazelon (@larabazelon), an associate professor at the University of San Francisco School of Law, is the author of, most recently, “Rectify: The Power of Restorative Justice After Wrongful Conviction.”", "id": "5c40673d3a125f5075c04e38", "date": "2019-01-17T11:30:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris, Call-Out Star", "full_text": " The toughest progressive we’ve seen in a long time. Opinion Columnist The more you learn about Kamala Harris, the more formidable she appears. She is an amazing amalgam of different elements — highly educated elite meritocrat, Oakland street fighter, crusading, rough-elbow prosecutor, canny machine pol and telegenic rhetorical brawler.  She is also probably the toughest and most hard-nosed progressive on the scene right now. Some on the left are criticizing Harris because she was an aggressive prosecutor for years, participating in the era of mass incarceration. But as the Democratic Party has moved left ideologically, and grown more suspicious of cops and prosecutors, it has also hardened emotionally.  Democratic primary voters may decide that if they are going to take on Donald Trump, they’re going to want the roughest, most confrontational gladiator they can get. After they see how, well, direct she can be, they may decide that person is Kamala Harris. Harris is very much a product of the highly educated progressive coastal elite. Her father is a professor at Stanford. Her mother, who was a breast cancer researcher, got her Ph.D. at 25. Harris grew up with ballet, violin, French horn and perfectionism.  She went to a prestigious school (Howard), was president of various student organizations and got great internships (Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Senate) before going to law school, zooming up the political ladder and marrying a partner at a prestigious law firm. She is famously comfortable in rooms of the very wealthy. But in deciding to work as a prosecutor — rather than going to a law firm — Harris was immersing herself in the gritty world the rest of the achievatrons were rising away from. Working as a prosecutor put her in touch with a world in which brothers sexually abuse their 6-year-old sisters, in which a man literally scalps his girlfriend in a domestic dispute, in which parents are too financially stressed and personally strained to have the time to make sure their kids go to school. The criminal justice system is an adversarial system, and it seems to have trained her in the art of confrontation. She developed what Benjamin Wallace-Wells of The New Yorker called an “eye for an enemy” — the ability to spot the villain in any situation. In her memoir, “The Truths We Hold,” she describes her political campaigns as a series of hard-fought battles against tough foes. She ran for San Francisco district attorney against her former boss, whose nickname was Kayo (pronounced “K.O.”), for all the people he knocked out. But she beat him. Gary Delagnes, a former head of the city’s police union, told Politico that he was standing at a party before that campaign when Harris put a finger in his chest and said: “You better endorse me, you better endorse me. You get it?” Delagnes interpreted that as: I’m going to be a player here. You better get on board. He went on to tell Politico: “She’s an intelligent person. She is a — let’s see, I better pick this word carefully: ruthless.” Harris was a beneficiary of the machine of the California political giant Willie Brown, who she briefly dated. Brown appointed her to the Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board and the California Medical Assistance Commission, both of which paid comfortable salaries.  That association has haunted her over the years, but Harris made it clear at one forum that there is no way she’s going to bend if Brown or his allies try to influence her. “You just make them understand that if they’re going to try to hurt you, they’re going to get hurt more.” Especially as it goes along, her book is largely a series of scenes in which she has angry confrontations with powerful people. “Get me Jamie Dimon on the phone,” she barked to her staff before having a raised-voice conversation with the C.E.O. of J.P. Morgan Chase. Her brief Senate career has been defined by a series of confrontations with Trump administration officials at various committee hearings. She reprints long transcripts of the episodes in her book. What you see is that she seems to have no inhibitions about hitting her opponent with full rhetorical force and landing the full blow. We in the punditocracy are generally analyzing the Democratic presidential race on ideological grounds: Which minute differences exist in the candidates’ various “Medicare for all” plans. I doubt that is how Democratic voters are thinking. Their immediate problem is Donald Trump, and the culture of shamelessness he has instigated. To beat Trump, I suspect Democrats will want unity. They won’t want somebody who essentially runs against the Democratic establishment (Bernie Sanders); they’ll want somebody who embodies it (Harris). They’ll want somebody who seems able to pulverize Trump in a debate (Harris). It will be interesting to see how primary voters wrestle with these questions: Is America too racist and sexist right now to elect a black woman? Or would nominating a black woman in fact be the perfect rebuttal to Trump? But the larger issue may be temperament and toughness. Harris’s fearless, cut-the-crap rhetorical style will probably serve her well in this pugilistic political moment. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks ", "id": "5c5393263a125f5075c076f4", "date": "2019-02-01T00:30:17+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Is Kamala Harris California’s Presidential Front-Runner?", "full_text": " California Today Good morning. (If you don’t already get California Today by email, here’s the sign-up.) In case you haven’t noticed, the field of Democratic candidates for president next year has gotten a little crowded. According to this handy Times candidate tracker, 16 Democrats have jumped into the race already, and three more, including Joe Biden, are likely to join. That’s a lot of candidates to keep track of — and since California’s presidential primary is now on March 3 instead of in June, the 14 million people eligible to vote in the Democratic primary here have an even louder voice than they’ve had in years. I checked in with Karen Skelton, a Democratic consultant based in Sacramento, to see how she thought things were shaking out so far. “I’m actually mesmerized by the possibilities in front of us,” she said, “because it’s such a big state and we haven’t gone early for so long.” That means, she said, more of the candidates will have to be visible in a geographically vast state — not as simple as taking a quick swing through Iowa or New Hampshire. It’s less likely that the field will have narrowed to just two or three candidates by the time California’s primary rolls around. And in order to be seen, Ms. Skelton said, the candidates will have to spend. “Huge amounts of money,” she said. “Like $10 million here can buy you four states of media elsewhere.” [Read more about Kamala Harris’s small-dollar fund-raising operation.] And candidates who don’t have as much experience campaigning in deep blue but deeply diverse California will need to micro-target groups of Democratic voters. “You’re not just going, ‘I’m on the left,’” she said of the candidates. “You’re like, ‘I’m going for the Asian Pacific Islander vote. I’m going for the rural Latino vote. I’m going for the coastal vote north of Riverside County, south of Santa Monica.’” Of course, Ms. Skelton said, Senator Kamala Harris “has an enormous advantage.” Ms. Harris and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont have both previously campaigned throughout California, so they have edges in the Golden State, she said. Still, nothing’s a sure bet when the field’s this wide open. [Read more about Ms. Harris’s first major campaign policy: A raise for teachers.] As my colleague Lisa Lerer wrote in today’s On Politics, we’re currently in the throes of a “Buttigieg Boomlet,” referring to Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. And Ms. Skelton said that for Beto O’Rourke, focusing his efforts on his giant, fast-growing home state of Texas could be a smart strategy. A recent Quinnipiac University national poll showed Ms. Harris trailing Joe Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke. And at home, Ms. Harris doesn’t exactly have unqualified support. While a new poll from the Public Policy Institute of California found that 54 percent of likely Democratic voters thought Ms. Harris should run for president, her approval rating as a senator was 48 percent among all likely voters, which was the same as the number for Senator Dianne Feinstein. (We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.) • Calls for Representative Adam Schiff’s head highlight a divide between House Democrats and Republicans that only got wider after Attorney General William P. Barr released his summary of the Mueller report. [The New York Times] • State lawmakers proposed a package of five bills aimed at reforming the college admissions process, including legislation that would make it harder for children of alumni and athletes to get preferential treatment. [The Wall Street Journal] • The Department of Housing and Urban Development sued Facebook on Thursday, accusing the company of housing discrimination in the way it targeted ads. [The New York Times] • A federal jury in San Francisco ordered Monsanto to pay a man more than $80 million in damages after his cancer was found to have been in part caused by the weedkiller Roundup. The verdict was a milestone in a continuing debate, and Monsanto is currently defending itself against thousands of similar claims. [The New York Times] • Pacific Gas & Electric spent at least $84 million, or about $15.55 per electric customer, on lawyers in the year leading up to its bankruptcy filing. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Lyft is becoming the first ride-hailing app to go public. On Thursday, it priced shares at $72, putting the company’s value at more than $24 billion. Its arrival on the public market marks the beginning of a new era for one-time disrupters. [The New York Times] • But for investors getting in on the action now, is it too late to make gobs of money? Is there any pop left, when today’s start-ups have spent years building massive businesses with private money instead of going public early? [The New York Times] • “We have the tools and language to understand identity in ways our parents never really thought about.” Hear from members of Generation Z in their own words. [The New York Times] • The U.S. census doesn’t have the language or tools for Arabs and Iranians to describe themselves as anything but white. That doesn’t square with their experiences. [The Los Angeles Times] • The Dodgers set an opening day record with eight home runs in a 12-5 victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks. [The Associated Press] • Colds, bruises, heartbreak: For many Latinos, Vicks VapoRub cures them all. Here’s how the little blue jar got onto so many grandmothers’ night stands and into so many mothers’ medicine cabinets. [The Los Angeles Times] One of the fun things about a new season, beyond the sense that you’re hitting a kind of refresh button on your life, is that you also get to hit refresh on your palate. This week, Tejal Rao wrote about how for her, spring means getting back into rhubarb: Every spring, when I spot red stalks of rhubarb at the market, I get ready to bake. The tang, the soft, creamy texture when it’s properly cooked, and the precise shade of hot pink, are all ideal for a big, celebratory spring cake, where rhubarb acts like a counterweight to the sweetness, bringing everything into balance. Alison Roman’s rhubarb-almond cake is my go-to, rich and crisp-edged and so easy to pull together if you’ve got a stand mixer. And this strawberry-rhubarb upside-down cake gets really jammy with fruit. But this year, I’m trying Melissa Clark’s rhubarb poundcake, striped with whole stalks, picking out thin dark stalks, rather than thick ones — they’ll cook faster and tend to be less fibrous. California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.", "id": "5c9e184d49f0eacbf105fbef", "date": "2019-03-29T13:04:51+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Says Jussie Smollett Developments Are Disappointing", "full_text": " Several Democratic presidential candidates spoke up when the actor Jussie Smollett described a hateful attack based on his race and sexual orientation in January. Not as many have spoken up since the police said the assault had been staged. Mr. Smollett surrendered to face a felony charge of filing a false police report on Thursday, after the police in Chicago said he hired two brothers for the assault. Mr. Smollett denies the accusation, and his legal team said Thursday that he “feels betrayed by a system that apparently wants to skip due process and proceed directly to sentencing.” [Latest update — For Jussie Smollett, how a life of arts and activism is upended.] At first, several Democratic presidential candidates expressed support for Mr. Smollett, who stars on the show “Empire.” Senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker both called the reported assault a “modern day lynching,” comments that Republicans are now criticizing them for. In a Facebook post on Thursday, Ms. Harris said she was “sad, frustrated and disappointed” by the reports about Mr. Smollett. But other candidates have not publicly revisited their initial views of the case. President Trump, who initially told reporters the alleged attack was “horrible,” criticized Mr. Smollett on Twitter on Thursday for what he called “racist and dangerous comments.” Here are the responses — and lack thereof — of Democratic presidential contenders on social media. Several candidates have not said anything. Two candidates who made statements in January offered new thoughts on Thursday: Ms. Harris and Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii. On Jan. 29, Ms. Harris called Mr. Smollett “one of the kindest, most gentle human beings I know.” But in her Facebook post on Thursday, she said a false claim to the police “not only diverts resources away from serious investigations but it makes it more difficult for other victims of crime to come forward.” She then pivoted to a discussion of hate crimes, citing F.B.I. statistics showing a 17 percent increase last year. “Part of the tragedy of this situation is that it distracts from that truth, and has been seized by some who would like to dismiss and downplay the very real problems that we must address,” she said. On Jan. 29, Ms. Gabbard called the described assault “heartbreaking.” On Thursday, she said in a series of tweets that, if guilty, Mr. Smollett “needs to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law to send a strong message to any potential future ‘hoaxers.’” Mr. Booker, Julian Castro, Kirsten Gillibrand and Joseph R. Biden Jr. — who is thought to be considering a presidential run but has not announced one — spoke up on Jan. 29 but have not put out new statements. Mr. Booker used the alleged assault to promote an anti-lynching bill. He said this week he would withhold further comment “until all of the information actually comes out from on-the-record sources”; a spokesman did not immediately respond to a message on Thursday. Mr. Castro, the former housing secretary and mayor of San Antonio, was the only candidate to hedge his statement on Jan. 29, prefacing it with “If the reports of Jussie Smollett’s attack last night are true.” But later in the day he tweeted more definitively about Mr. Smollett. “In 2019, he was violently attacked because of his race and sexual orientation,” he wrote. A spokeswoman said Thursday that Mr. Castro had no new comment. Initially, Ms. Gillibrand, a New York senator, called the reported assault “a sickening and outrageous attack” and said she was “praying for Jussie and his family.” She told CNN this week she would “wait to find out the facts before I make another statement”; a spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a message on Thursday. Mr. Biden, the former vice president, said “we are with you, Jussie” after the reported attack. A spokesman did not immediately respond to a message on Thursday.    ", "id": "5c6f8adb3a125f5075c0af18", "date": "2019-02-22T05:37:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Inside Kamala Harris’s Small-Dollar Fund-Raising Operation", "full_text": " At first glance, there was nothing notable about the day Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio received his greatest number of online contributions in the past six years. It was just another Monday in the doldrums of August 2018. And for Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is now running for president, her largest number of online contributions came on what seemed like a random Friday in June 2017. But those two days actually had something in common. They were days that Kamala Harris, the junior senator from California, had asked her email list to contribute to those colleagues. Over the last two years, Ms. Harris has systematically constructed a database of donors and email addresses that raised several million dollars for her fellow Democrats, demonstrating an uncommon potency for a first-term senator, according to federal election records and interviews with numerous political strategists. Now, as she makes her own run for president, her digital following serves as a kind of stealth weapon, putting her in perhaps the best position to challenge the small-dollar fund-raising operations of two top rivals,  former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Those two candidates outgunned every other 2020 Democratic candidate with their roughly $6 million hauls in the first day of fund-raising, besting Ms. Harris by 4 to 1. Ms. Harris raised $1.5 million, the next-highest total in the field, from more than 38,000 donors in the first 24 hours. In a campaign in which small donations have emerged as an early proxy for viability, Ms. Harris’s team hopes her grass-roots appeal will allow her to compete at the highest level of American politics. The first full look at her strength will come in her total fund-raising for the first quarter of 2019, which ends Sunday and will be publicly disclosed in the first half of April. Laura Olin, a digital strategist on President Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, said Ms. Harris’s standing among small donors remains “underappreciated.” “She has more enthusiasm among the base than she is given credit for,” said Ms. Olin, who is unaligned in the 2020 race. [Sign up for our politics newsletter. Lisa Lerer will be your guide through the 2020 race and share what you really need to know.] There is no question that Ms. Harris remains far behind Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke in the race for small donors. But unlike those two rivals, Ms. Harris has not benefited from running in a campaign that soaked up national attention, which suggests she has barely begun to tap into her fund-raising potential, digital experts said. Ms. Harris’s first-day fund-raising figures were almost identical to what Mr. Sanders raised on his first day in 2015, when he made a splash as a favorite of grass-roots givers. Her campaign has said that her email list grew by 20 percent on that day alone. People close to the Sanders and O’Rourke campaigns view Ms. Harris as the candidate most likely to eventually compete with them for small donations. Some rivals have already witnessed her list’s force and reach. The day of Ms. Klobuchar’s windfall, Ms. Harris had written an email seeking contributions for several female Democratic senators, including Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who is also running for president. The number of online donations Ms. Gillibrand received that day ranks as her fourth-most — one spot behind the day President Trump attacked her on Twitter — according to an analysis of election data from ActBlue, which processes Democratic donations online. For Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, also a 2020 candidate, her top two days in the last six years, in terms of number of online donations, coincided with days that Ms. Harris had asked her email list to support Ms. Warren financially. (One was after the now-infamous attempt to silence Ms. Warren on the Senate floor, when the Republican leader declared, “Nevertheless, she persisted.”) [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] “We couldn’t run a campaign of this magnitude without the consistent support of our incredible online supporters,” said Shelby Cole, who runs Ms. Harris’s email program and previously worked on Mr. O’Rourke’s Senate race. “Our supporters aren’t an ATM. This is a deep, lasting relationship we constantly seek to strengthen because their voices are central to our grass-roots campaign.” Unlike Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, who have sworn off big-money fund-raisers, Ms. Harris has raced across the country to appear at events where donors give as much as $2,800 to attend; last week she held fund-raisers in Texas and California. For the most part, Ms. Harris has kept the breadth of her online donor list hidden by fund-raising so heavily in 2018 for other candidates, rather than herself. [Read about Kamala Harris’s growing pains on the presidential campaign trail] In October, Ms. Harris sent an email asking for donations to Joe Donnelly, an endangered senator from Indiana, during the fight over Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. Though she split the proceeds with Mr. Donnelly, his campaign manager, Peter Hanscom, said it was the most money — about $100,000 — anyone had ever raised for the campaign with a single email. “There were other colleagues of Joe’s” who did send such messages, Mr. Hanscom said. “She, by far, had the largest impact.” The next day, Ms. Harris sent an email urging donations to Heidi Heitkamp, then a North Dakota senator, after she voiced her opposition to Justice Kavanaugh. It raised more than $450,000, stunning the small world of political operatives who track such things. Ms. Harris has used her email list for charity, too. Lisa Blanchard, who founded the Grateful Garment Project, which provides fresh clothing at hospitals for victims of sexual violence, recounted how a co-worker burst into her office last year clutching a $29,966.48 check. The check came from ActBlue, which Ms. Blanchard had never heard of. So she called, and ActBlue told her that Ms. Harris had sent an email on behalf of the Grateful Garment Project and three other nonprofits. She had no heads up this was happening. “Good for her, she’s got a powerful list! I say, go girl,” Ms. Blanchard said, before quickly adding, “We’d be glad for her to do it again!” Simply including “Kamala Harris” in the sender line of an email can spur donations, said Ilya Sheyman, the executive director for MoveOn.org, the online grass-roots activist group. Emails signed by Ms. Harris raised more than $1 million from MoveOn members, he said. “She was the top senator or elected official in 2018 when it came to galvanizing MoveOn members to give to candidates,” Mr. Sheyman said, noting it showed her appeal to activists and donors beyond her existing list. “One of the dynamics in the past year was seeing Harris emerge as a breakout on the national stage, as a galvanizing force,” he added. Until recently, Ms. Harris had, like most politicians, relied overwhelmingly on large donations. In her 2016 election to the Senate, less than 16 percent of the $13.3 million she raised from individuals came from donations of less than $200. But on the night of that election, her victory speech — which she made just as it became clear President Trump had won — went viral. “Do we retreat or do we fight?” Ms. Harris said that night. “I say we fight. And I intend to fight.” The next day, Ms. Harris’s political brain trust decamped to her Los Angeles campaign headquarters to figure out what came next, according to people involved in the discussions. The team agreed that Mike Nellis, her top digital strategist, would be given a budget to try to expand her small donor base, buying ads on sites like Facebook to mine new supporters. The timing proved fortuitous. With the election over, many Democrats had suddenly withdrawn from the online advertising landscape. Ms. Harris’s campaign filled the void — and made back $10 for every $1 it spent initially, according to a campaign official. The money was promptly reinvested. That reinvestment quickly netted even more money. And so the campaign invested more, repeating the process until, by the end of 2018, Ms. Harris had spent $4.93 million on digital advertisements over two years, campaign records show. In those two years, Ms. Harris raised more than 75 percent of her money from donations of less than $200 — a total of $5.845 million — a major reversal from her reliance on big money in 2016. [Kamala Harris has faced criticism from within her party for her record as a California prosecutor.] The biggest moment, which one Harris adviser called “transformational,” was the confirmation fight over Justice Kavanaugh. She launched an online petition to stop the nomination that garnered more than 1 million signatures, according to ads she ran on Facebook — a gargantuan sum for a grass-roots effort. Those signers are now part of her email database. Records show that Ms. Harris’s list grew steadily in strength as her presidential bid approached: Eight of her top 10 days for the number of online donations came in the last four months of 2018, according to ActBlue data. In contrast, none of Ms. Gillibrand’s top 10 days, and only two of Ms. Warren’s, came in that time period; for Ms. Warren, one of them was Dec. 31, the day she announced her bid for president. Ms. Harris’s ascendancy in online fund-raising has produced a role reversal with Ms. Warren. After Ms. Warren’s election to the Senate in 2012, it was her email list that was the envy of Democratic politics. And it was Ms. Harris who depended on the generosity of Ms. Warren to drive her small-dollar donations. In Ms. Harris’s 2016 run for Senate, according to ActBlue records, she topped 1,000 online donations only three times. Those three days had one thing in common: an email from Ms. Warren to her list asking for donations to Ms. Harris. Rachel Shorey contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c9a43fc49f0eacbf105f1d9", "date": "2019-03-26T15:22:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris and Michael Bloomberg Clash on Medicare for All", "full_text": " A day after Senator Kamala Harris of California endorsed ending private health insurance in favor of a “Medicare for all” government plan, Michael R. Bloomberg, a possible rival of hers for the Democratic presidential nomination, said the proposal would “bankrupt us for a very long time.” Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, rejected the idea of “Medicare for all,” which has been gaining traction among Democrats. “I think you could never afford that. You’re talking about trillions of dollars,” Mr. Bloomberg said during a political swing in New Hampshire, which holds the nation’s first primary in 2020. “I think you can have ‘Medicare for all’ for people that are uncovered,” he added, “but to replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time.” Mr. Bloomberg did not mention any of his would-be competitors by name. But his wording — particularly the distinction he drew between providing Medicare to everyone and providing it only to those currently uninsured — positioned him clearly against Senator Harris. Few Democrats have explicitly suggested ending private insurance, even though many have endorsed “Medicare for all.” Ms. Harris initially stopped short of it, too, saying at a CNN town-hall event on Monday that she supported “Medicare for all” and adding, “We have to appreciate and understand that access to health care, it should not be thought of as a privilege. It should be understood to be a right.” But when the CNN anchor Jake Tapper pressed her on what that meant for private insurance, Ms. Harris responded, “Let’s eliminate all of that.” Lily Adams, a spokeswoman for Ms. Harris, responded to Mr. Bloomberg on Twitter, noting that he is a billionaire. On Tuesday night, a campaign spokesman for Ms. Harris said she still supports and prefers the elimination of private insurers, but also noted that she had previously backed other bills that are alternates to “Medicare for all” that would preserve some role for the insurance industry. A Harris spokeswoman also emphasized on Twitter that this comment did not mean Ms. Harris was bending on “Medicare for all.” But the campaign’s move to modify Ms. Harris’s comments on such a major issue illustrated the difficulty the 2020 hopefuls could face attempting to appeal to their progressive base while not turning off general election voters. The disagreement between Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Harris reflects a basic divide within the Democratic Party. On one side are liberals who have proposed ambitious left-wing policies, from “Medicare for all” to a wealth tax on the richest Americans. On the other side are centrist and fiscally conservative Democrats, along with liberals who support such policies in theory but argue that voters would reject them.   ", "id": "5c50e5da3a125f5075c06fd7", "date": "2019-01-29T23:46:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "With a Possible Presidential Bid in 2020, Kamala Harris Talks About Her New Book", "full_text": " 5 Things About Your Book Kamala Harris’s new memoir, “The Truths We Hold: An American Journey,” begins with a prologue set on Nov. 8, 2016, the night Harris was elected a United States senator from California. The rest of the book addresses the urgent political matters that have risen in the wake of that night, but it also goes back to cover, among other things, Harris’s tenure as California’s attorney general and her childhood in Oakland as the daughter of immigrant parents: her father an economist from Jamaica and her mother a cancer researcher from India. Though rumors of Harris gearing up for a presidential run in 2020 are becoming noisier by the minute (when Stephen Colbert asked her on Thursday if she would run, Harris coyly said, “I might”), she told me the memoir is not meant to help lay the groundwork for such a campaign. “At the expense of sounding immodest,” she said, the book is “really about the work I’ve done already that’s had national impact, and what I hope to come from it.” Below, Harris talks about how she connects personal experiences to her professional life, the breakneck speed of the news cycle, the inspiration she takes from Bob Marley and more. When did you first get the idea to write this book? Election night, 2016. I sat on our couch at home after my night at the election party with a family-size bag of Doritos, which I ate by myself, one after the other, in awe and in shock about what I was watching on TV. It was a night that was bittersweet for my campaign, for all of us. None of us saw it coming. After that night, I really felt a more urgent need to tell people what we’re fighting for. When we talk about a fight, it’s born out of optimism; and it’s not a fight against something, but it’s a fight for something. It was that emotion that led me to speak the words I spoke that night, about the need to fight; and that, by extension, led to the book. What’s the most surprising thing you learned while writing it? I was raised to do things, not to talk about myself or my feelings — or frankly, even to look back. It was an effort to talk about my feelings as things were happening. It was difficult. I talk about a lot that’s really personal, and that I had not talked about in public. That was a component of it that made me feel very vulnerable. But I felt it was important to talk about for a couple of reasons. One, I’m really clear in my mind that there are a lot of experiences I’ve had, emotional experiences and responses, that are in common with a lot of people. But more important, I wanted to give context to the work I’ve done. Almost everything I’ve done professionally has been motivated by some experience I’ve been exposed to. The process of writing the book required me to really explore what I was feeling at those moments. For example, the whole chapter that we named “Underwater” — I had never talked about the fact that our mother bought our first house when I was a teenager. I’ll never forget, when my mother came back and said, “This is going to be our home.” The pictures and the excitement she had, and the excitement we then had. I connected that emotion to what it meant for all those homeowners who either had that hope when they engaged in what ended up being a fraudulent mortgage scheme or when they lost their homes. Knowing what that meant, when I’m sitting across the table from executives at the biggest banks in the country and feeling a sense of responsibility, that this wasn’t simply a financial transaction. When your mother comes home with the picture of the first home you’re ever going to have, it’s not like someone waving around a piece of paper with a stock portfolio. It’s a whole other thing. In what way is the book you wrote different from the book you set out to write? Hopefully the book takes the reader on a journey down memory lane about the last 12 months and how much happened. Everything is happening so rapidly right now that a lot of people tend to forget what just happened six months ago, when the thing that happened six months ago was earth-shattering. There’s a lot in the book that was happening in real time; so literally as I’m writing it, it’s happening. The book was due and then the Brett Kavanaugh hearings happened, and so how do I handle that? It was important to me to at least try to talk about that, knowing that people will be reading about it months after it happened. Who is a creative person (not a writer) who has influenced you and your work? Certainly my mother. She was incredibly creative, as a scientist. But when I think about performers: Bob Marley. I first started listening to him when I was a child. My father had an incredible jazz collection but also a lot of Marley. I saw him in concert at the Greek Theater in Berkeley. I was hooked. Jamaica’s history is actually not that well known in the context of the issues we deal with in the United States. But Jamaica grappled with vicious slavery for generations, and then colonists, with a very strong sense of identity in terms of what it meant to be particularly a black Jamaican. A lot of his music was about what it means to fight for the people. He was a very spiritual person also. I’m very spiritual. I don’t talk a lot about it, but the idea that there is a higher being and that we should be motivated by love of one another — that also requires us to fight. Persuade someone to read “The Truths We Hold” in 50 words or less. I hope you’ll walk away renewing your faith in the nobility and importance of public service, and convinced that we are a country that was founded on noble ideals. Imperfect though we may be, what makes us strong, and special, is that we’ve always aspired to reach those ideals. This interview has been condensed and edited. Follow John Williams on Twitter: @johnwilliamsnyt. The Truths We HoldAn American JourneyBy Kamala HarrisIllustrated. 318 pages. Penguin Press. $30. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.   OpinionKamala D. Harris ", "id": "5c3911c03a125f5075c04006", "date": "2019-01-11T16:45:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Is Latest 2020 Dem Contender to Release Taxes", "full_text": " BALTIMORE — Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris has released 15 years of tax returns, including her returns for 2018, and the California senator reports that she and her husband had a federal tax bill of about $700,000 on an adjusted gross joint income of about $1.9 million last year. The documents released Sunday provide the fullest picture of her finances as she pursues a White House bid. Harris reported an income of about $157,000 in 2018 from her job as a senator, as well as about $320,000 in net income as a writer; a book she wrote was published earlier this year. Her husband, Doug Emhoff, earned about $1.5 million working as an attorney. Harris is the latest Democratic presidential contender to release her taxes. President Donald Trump has continued to refuse to release his since the 2016 presidential campaign, when he became the first nominee in decades to buck the tradition of disclosure. House Democrats are pressing for access to Trump's tax returns, which would give lawmakers far greater insight into the president's business dealings and potential conflicts of interest, as they exercise their oversight role. Harris and her husband reporting giving a small portion of their income — often about 1% to 3% a year — to charitable causes. Harris reported no charitable contributions some years when she was California's attorney general. The Democrats who are running for president in 2020 have released their tax returns to varying degrees. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York released her 2018 tax return in late March and urged her colleagues to do the same. She was the first Democratic candidate to do so. Gillibrand has released her returns annually since 2012. That year, she released her returns dating back to 2007. Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released a decade of her tax returns, as well as her 2018 returns. Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar this month released 12 years of tax returns, dating to 2006, when she first became a candidate for federal office. Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, who released just one year of tax returns when he ran for president in 2016, said more than a month ago that he would release a decade's worth of returns. He and his campaign have said they will release his tax returns by Monday's tax filing deadline. ___ Suderman reported from Richmond, Virginia, and Braun from Washington.", "id": "5cb3220849f0eacbf1f83e8e", "date": "2019-04-14T12:03:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Hopeful Kamala Harris Says She Owns Gun for Protection", "full_text": " DES MOINES, Iowa — Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris says she owns a gun and called it a \"false choice\" that the only two gun control options are complete, unrestricted access or a desire to seize everyone's guns. The senator from California told reporters after a campaign event in Iowa that she is a gun owner. She says, \"I own a gun for probably the reason that a lot of people do: for personal safety.\" The 2020 White House hopeful says that Americans \"are being offered a false choice, which suggests you're either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone's guns away.\" She says she supports \"smart gun-safety laws,\" such as universal background checks and a ban on assault weapons.", "id": "5cafc4b949f0eacbf1f8320a", "date": "2019-04-11T22:49:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘Progressive Prosecutor’: Can Kamala Harris Square the Circle?", "full_text": " The Long Run Ms. Harris seemed to try to be all things to all people as a district attorney and state attorney general. Now, as she runs for president, her record faces a chorus of critics, especially on the left. Senator Kamala Harris says her critics are imposing false choices on her record.CreditCreditChristie Hemm Klok for The New York Times SAN FRANCISCO — Kamala Harris was three months into her tenure as San Francisco district attorney in 2004 when a gang member killed a police officer with a hail of bullets from an AK-47. Her announcement within three days of the murder that she would not seek the death penalty set off protests from her fellow Democrats as well as from the police. Senator Dianne Feinstein stood in front of thousands of mourners at the officer’s funeral at St. Mary’s Cathedral and urged her to change her mind; Jerry Brown, the once and future governor, was among those standing in ovation. The state attorney general threatened to take over the case, and Senator Barbara Boxer asked the Justice Department to prosecute it. Ms. Harris, the first person of color elected as this city’s district attorney, declared her decision a matter of principle: The death penalty, she believed, discriminated against poor and black people and would not deter more killing. But death penalty opponents wondered a decade later where that principle had gone when as California’s attorney general Ms. Harris appealed a judge’s decision declaring the state’s death penalty law unconstitutional. She said it was a matter of upholding the law; her critics asked whether she would have similarly defended segregation and statutes against interracial marriage. Now Ms. Harris is running for president as a “progressive prosecutor.” She says she sees no contradiction in the term, arguing that a tough prosecutor can also be a force for reforming the criminal-justice system. But already, mere weeks into her candidacy, she is facing a chorus of skepticism, especially from the left. The death penalty episode shows the tricky crosscurrents that she has had to weather — and that are likely to intensify as she tries to square that circle. In a dozen years as the top law enforcement official of the city and then the state, Ms. Harris was as much politician as prosecutor, appearing to try to be all things to all constituencies. More practical than ideological, she was defined most by resisting easy definition. She impressed Californians with her commanding presence — offering a preview of the senator the country would see pointedly questioning Republican nominees during confirmation hearings. But she developed a reputation for caution, protecting the status quo and shrinking from decisions on contentious issues. Years before ending mass incarceration became a bipartisan cause, she started programs to steer low-level drug offenders away from prison and into school and jobs. At the same time, she touted her success in increasing conviction rates, and as attorney general remained largely on the sidelines as California scrambled to meet a federal court order to reduce its swollen prison populations. She also repeatedly sided with prosecutors accused of misconduct, challenging judges who ruled against them. And while she summoned righteous anger toward the bank fraud that helped set off the Great Recession, holding out for more money for California homeowners in the National Mortgage Settlement, she said little when the governor diverted some of it to fill holes in his budget. “She played it very careful,” said Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles who served on an independent panel that investigated one of the cases of prosecutorial misconduct while Ms. Harris was attorney general. “She had her sights set on what her future might be, and she realized every day she was navigating a minefield, because she had law enforcement to deal with, she had the public to deal with, the minority community to deal with. I think she was trying to be very careful not to alienate.” She has also had to navigate the shifting politics of crime and race — and the expectations they bring with them. Ms. Harris began her career at a time when many African-American law enforcement officials were joining, even amplifying, law-and-order calls for stricter prosecution, to stop the drugs and violence victimizing their communities. When she became attorney general in 2011, crime was falling and the debate was evolving. Now, in the era of Black Lives Matter, many in the black community argue that the biggest law-enforcement problem is law enforcement itself, and her record is being assessed against calls for a wholesale reimagination of the criminal justice system — who should go to prison and for how long; indeed, should any but the most heinous criminals go to prison at all? At the other end of the political spectrum, President Trump has sought to frame the immigration debate around fear of rising crime, teeing it up as a campaign issue for 2020. In the waning days of the partial government shutdown over his demand for a border wall, he tweeted what he called a new Republican theme for the next two years: “BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!” Ms. Harris scorns what she calls false choices, and says her critics are imposing them on her record. Those who have worked for her call her disciplined, a characterization she prefers to “cautious.” She describes her thinking — about criminal justice, but also about the other issues animating her presidential candidacy, like health care and economic inequality — as scientific. “It’s a hypothesis; this is how we can do things better,” she said in a recent interview. “You have to inform it with: Where’s the empirical evidence? Where is the data? Where is the detail?” She does not like to be boxed in. “The thing that drives Kamala Harris crazy above all other things is to get reduced to a demographic archetype,” said Sean Clegg, a longtime strategist for Ms. Harris and other California Democrats. “‘You are XYZ because you are a black woman; you are XYZ because you’re from San Francisco.’ She’s a complex person like all of us. She’s also been the first. That’s a lot more difficult than it looks.” Ms. Harris, now 54, confounded expectations just by becoming a prosecutor. She is the daughter of immigrants — her mother from India, her father from Jamaica — who met as civil-rights activists in graduate school at Berkeley and gave Ms. Harris what she calls a stroller’s-eye view of the demonstrations of the 1960s. Most of her law school peers went into civil-rights work, recalled Jeff Adachi, who was a tutor in Ms. Harris’s program at the University of California’s Hastings College of the Law and later faced off against her as San Francisco’s elected public defender. “You didn’t have a lot of minorities who were wanting to be part of law enforcement,” he said. She had to explain to family and friends before taking her first job out of law school, as a prosecutor in Oakland in 1990. As she described it in the recent interview, “When we want to reform systems, it shouldn’t and it can’t only be from the outside on bended knee or trying to break down the door.” She added, “Let’s try and do it from the inside and understand that those people are going to stand in a courtroom and ask for guilty verdicts for people who do harm to the community — and that’s consistent with all progressive values.” She earned a reputation as a sharp trial lawyer, and in 1998 became the managing attorney in charge of the career criminal unit in the San Francisco district attorney’s office. But she left within two years, frustrated by what she saw as the dysfunction of that office, which had the state’s lowest conviction rate and lacked basics like email and enough phones. She worked for the city attorney, and she prepared to run against her former boss, Terence Hallinan, in 2003. Ms. Harris had made political and social connections, dating Willie Brown, the powerful speaker of the California House, and serving on the board of the city’s Museum of Modern Art. But her polls showed she was a relative unknown. Mr. Hallinan, a former defense lawyer and a son of a Progressive Party presidential candidate, had infuriated the police department by winning indictments of top brass in a scandal involving the assistant chief’s son. Ms. Harris campaigned between Mr. Hallinan and a more law-and-order candidate, on a platform that ran the gamut: professionalizing the office and improving relations with the police, opposing the death penalty and creating programs to steer first-time nonviolent offenders away from crime. She brought a rare perspective — elected district attorneys are more typically white men; a 2015 study by the Women Donors Network found that just 1 percent are women of color. Communities of color, she argued, wanted tougher treatment for the drug dealers victimizing them; what they didn’t want from the police was excessive force. Almost immediately, her decision on the death penalty in the officer’s killing inflamed tensions with the police. But it was pragmatic as well as principled: She knew that San Francisco jurors rarely if ever returned death sentences. And despite the protests, polling showed that the public supported her. Some contend that the episode spooked her, that she spent the rest of her tenure trying to make amends with the police. Ms. Harris scoffs at the idea, pointing to her diversion program that allowed young low-level offenders to avoid incarceration if they enrolled in school full time and kept a job. “You think law enforcement was supportive of that?” she said. That  program was relatively small, with only about 300 graduates over eight years. Mr. Adachi and others complained that it took only the offenders most likely to succeed. But its recidivism rate was remarkably low: less than 10 percent, compared with 53 percent statewide. Arguing that students who skip school are the ones who end up in the criminal justice system, Ms. Harris also started an anti-truancy program. She described it as carrot-and-stick: It threatened prosecution for parents whose children were chronically absent, but also helped them with health care problems and other hurdles to getting their children to school. Critics, though, said it was more stick than carrot, and failed to grapple with the depths of the social problems parents were struggling against. Either way, the program reflected Ms. Harris’s approach to her job. “Fierce,” said Lateefah Simon, a onetime teenage shoplifter who became executive director of a center that helps lift young women out of lives of crime. Ms. Harris recruited her to work in the district attorney’s office, instructed her to lose the Pumas and track pants, bought her a suit and told her she needed to understand the penal code. Ms. Harris herself kept an immaculate desk, with little more than a notepad and a keyboard at her fingertips. Ms. Simon called Ms. Harris “the 1999 version of Olivia Pope,” the impeccably tailored, steely-in-a-crisis hero of television’s “Scandal.” “She’s not easy,” Ms. Simon said. “If you beat up a woman in front of her children, you are going to jail. At the heart, she is a prosecutor. She wants to hold people accountable.” Suzy Loftus, who started working for Ms. Harris as a campaign volunteer in 2003 and is now running for district attorney, recalls Ms. Harris’s instruction as she swore her in as a prosecutor: “When you go into court tomorrow,” she told her, “you look the judge in the eye and say, ‘Suzy Loftus, for the people.’” (“For the people” is now the slogan for Ms. Harris’s presidential campaign.) “It’s professional and it’s about dignity,” Ms. Loftus said. “But it’s also about giving dignity to people who are most impacted by the system.” But it was Ms. Harris’s success in increasing conviction rates that became a central boast of her campaign for attorney general in 2010. An article in San Francisco Weekly that year challenged the numbers, noting that most of the convictions had come from plea deals, and that the conviction rate for cases that went to trial was lower than Mr. Hallinan’s, and had dropped over the previous two years. Assistant prosecutors were quoted saying that Ms. Harris had pressured them to take weak cases to trial in an attempt to look tough on crime as she prepared to run beyond the liberal city. Her office defended her by noting that she had won stiffer sentences than her predecessors, by demanding prison time instead of probation for crimes including robbery and home burglary. Ms. Simon, who was awarded a MacArthur “genius” grant in 2003 for her leadership on juvenile justice and now leads the Akonadi Foundation, a racial justice organization in Oakland, says she fights with her “radical friends” who think Ms. Harris was not progressive enough on crime. “I say, I’d love to see you run for D.A. and run a better office.” Ms. Harris, she said, had to contend with expectations from all sides. “She instinctually but also strategically had to think about the way people saw her,” Ms. Simon said. “The expectations not just of a black woman elected, but with black folks, they expected so much of her to go and revolutionize the system in four to eight years, which is impossible.” Ms. Harris ran unopposed in 2007 for her second term — the only San Francisco district attorney to have done so in nearly two decades. And she became increasingly well known nationally, publishing her first book, “Smart on Crime: A Career Prosecutor’s Plan to Make Us Safer,” as she prepared to run for attorney general in 2010. She took office at the ideal moment for a prosecutor who wanted to rethink the criminal justice system. A panel of federal judges had ruled that overcrowding in California prisons amounted to cruel and unusual punishment — prisoners were stacked in triple bunk beds in gymnasiums and dying for lack of medical care — and ordered the state to reduce the population by about 40,000. The debate over prison crowding had been long-running and contentious, with victims’ rights groups and law enforcement officials opposing the idea of prisoner release. Ms. Harris stayed above the fray, as she would on a range of issues throughout her tenure, seeing herself less as a decision maker than as a lawyer serving a client. She had campaigned to the right of her Republican opponent on the question of easing the state’s tough three-strikes law. Once in office, she declined to take positions on ultimately successful ballot initiatives intended to reduce prison populations — one expanding opportunities for parole, the other reducing many nonviolent felonies to misdemeanors. She argued that because she was tasked with writing the descriptions of the initiatives that would appear on the ballot any public statements on the proposals might create the impression that she had a finger on the scale. This departed, though, from the practice of previous attorneys general. After the Supreme Court upheld the judges’ overcrowding order, the state promised to “promptly” release a significant number of nonviolent prisoners, giving credit for time served. A delay in meeting that promise drew a judicial scolding in 2014. The state’s response proved embarrassing, and unsuccessful: Reducing the prison population, Ms. Harris’s office maintained, would hurt California’s ability to fight wildfires by shrinking the pool of forced labor. “She really was a sideline player in all the decarceration efforts,” said Robert Weisberg, a law professor and co-director of the criminal law center at Stanford. “She didn’t stake out a strong position on what to do other than, ‘Let’s promote re-entry and anti-recidivism programs.’” The California attorney general’s office is large, about 5,000 lawyers, and Ms. Harris said she was unaware of the brief arguing for cheap prison labor. “A previous A.G. said to me, ‘You are going to inherit an office of 5,000 mistakes waiting for you every day,’” she said in the interview. “I have always owned that responsibility.” That was also her response to criticism that she had resisted appeals for DNA testing from Kevin Cooper, a death row inmate whose case had been taken up by groups including the American Bar Association and the American Civil Liberties Union. Ms. Harris said she learned of the case in a New York Times column last year — after which she urged testing. Beginning in the summer of 2014, the nation — and with it, California’s attorney general — was thrust into a debate over police brutality, by the deaths of black men in confrontations with the police in Ferguson, Mo.; Baltimore; and other cities. Ms. Harris won praise for releasing statewide data in a way that informed rather than inflamed the brutality debate: It included numbers on the use of police force but also on use of force against officers. She instituted body cameras for police agents who worked in her office, and offered implicit-bias training for police statewide. But she declined to support statewide regulations for the use of body cameras, agreeing with local departments that they should set their own standards. And she did not support a bill that would have required the attorney general to investigate police shootings. Her office was also forced to confront an uproar over prosecutorial misconduct, with judges disciplining local prosecutors for lying and tampering with evidence. It was an issue she had faced as district attorney in a scandal involving drug testing at the San Francisco Police Department crime lab. A technician had been skimming drugs to feed her own habit, and Ms. Harris’s chief drug prosecutor had warned that she was sabotaging evidence. Ms. Harris said she only learned of the problem several months later, when it was revealed publicly. A judge then ruled that the district attorney’s office had violated constitutional protections requiring prosecutors to turn over any information that might damage witnesses’ credibility, and criticized the office for failing to tell defense lawyers about crimes or misconduct on at least 60 police officers’ records. Ms. Harris responded by accusing the judge of a conflict of interest because she was married to a defense attorney who had handled a case involving the lab. (A court rejected her motion.) As attorney general, Ms. Harris defended prosecutors by appealing judges’ rulings — dropping one appeal, during her Senate campaign, only after a video of judges criticizing her office went viral. In a case in Orange County, a public defender had discovered that the district attorney’s office was strategically placing jailhouse informants, offering them leniency if they could coax confessions from fellow inmates. A judge found that the district attorney’s office had lied to him about the use of informants and withheld potentially favorable evidence from defense lawyers. When the judge disqualified the entire office from a death penalty case, Ms. Harris appealed, accusing the judge of abusing his discretion. While she opened an inquiry into the case at hand, she rejected repeated calls for a broad investigation of the prosecutor’s office. In the recent interview, Ms. Harris said her decision reflected her experience when others had tried to disqualify her from the San Francisco death penalty case. It was up to voters, not the attorney general, she said, to remove elected prosecutors. “I knew misconduct had occurred, clearly it had,” she said. “And it was being handled at the local level.” Frustrated by her refusal to investigate, Erwin Chemerinsky, then the law school dean at the University of California, Irvine, joined with a former attorney general to ask the Justice Department to examine what they believed was a pattern of civil rights violations in the prosecutor’s office. Their letter was signed by 25 prominent law professors, prosecutors and defense lawyers. “Twice Kamala Harris called on my cell and said she was on top of it and looking into it,” he said. “To my knowledge, the California A.G. never did anything with regard to the scandal.” Professor Chemerinsky emphasized that he admired Ms. Harris’s work as a senator. But, he said, her office’s decisions on Orange County were “outrageous.” “Their reaction ranged from silence to criticizing the judge who found the misconduct,” he said. “Never did they attempt to be a force for reform.” In September 2011, Ms. Harris announced that she would not sign the National Mortgage Settlement, negotiated by the Obama administration with the banks at the center of the foreclosure crisis. What happened next, Ms. Harris and her supporters say, illustrates her agility in balancing competing interests. The proposed settlement essentially gave the banks amnesty against further prosecution. Ms. Harris wanted to leave open the possibility of investigation and lawsuits, and promised Californians to lock up the bankers responsible for the fraud. As the top prosecutor for the state with the bulk of foreclosures, she had the power to determine the fate of the deal. The lobbying was intense — from housing groups, from homeowners, from the Obama administration. “It was a constant tension between speeding the relief quickly in the middle of the crisis or taking the time to go through this investigation, which could take years, while people were losing their homes every day,” said Brian Nelson, a deputy who helped Ms. Harris negotiate the deal. She did not kill the settlement. She emerged with a better one: The banks agreed to $18 billion in debt reduction that Ms. Harris said would allow California homeowners to stay in their homes, and the national agreement included $2.5 billion for a fund to provide educational counseling and other services for those in danger of foreclosure. But critics, especially on the left, have long said that the settlement was no grand bargain. It did not require banks to pay much out of pocket; $4.7 billion of the $18 billion in relief came from forgiving second mortgages, many of which the banks would have written off anyway because they were so severely underwater, and $9 billion came from homeowners selling their homes for less than the value of their mortgages, meaning that homeowners did not stay in their homes. Ms. Harris retained the right to investigate and pursue claims against the banks, winning $921 million against five institutions. But no one went to prison; she explained to voters that she was frustrated, too, but the state could go only “where the evidence took us.” And most of the $410 million California got to help at-risk homeowners never made it to them; a judge found that Governor Brown diverted $331 million to plug budget holes. Ms. Harris recused herself from defending the governor because of her role in the settlement. She rebuffed housing advocates’ requests to meet with her, offering little more than a brief statement that the money should go to homeowners. Her decision to fight the ruling that had struck down California’s capital punishment law in 2015 created similar disappointment among those who had applauded her refusal to call for the death penalty in San Francisco. “This was not a situation where they were compelled to respond,” said Hadar Aviram, a law professor at Hastings who started a petition against appealing. “They could have done nothing.” The public, however, had three years earlier rejected a ballot initiative that would have abolished the death penalty in California. In the interview, Ms. Harris said that as attorney general she had had to represent her client, the governor, who supported the death penalty appeal. Even so, she had cited her discretion in deciding which cases to pursue when she declined requests to defend Proposition 8, a successful ballot initiative defining marriage as between a man and a woman, in federal courts. Once again, she said, her critics were framing a false choice: She could defend the death penalty for a client and still be opposed to it personally. Just as a prosecutor can be tough but also progressive. “One human being kills another human being, a woman is raped, a child is molested — are we really saying there should be no consequence and accountability?” she said. “I believe it is consistent with knowing that there is bias in the system, knowing that there are deep flaws in the system, knowing that there has to be reform of the system.” She added: “Are we really saying that you’re either that, or you believe that there should be serious consequences for people who commit serious crimes? I am both.”    ", "id": "5c612be53a125f5075c0907d", "date": "2019-02-11T08:00:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris’s Misleading Answer About a Police Shooting Bill", "full_text": " Fact Check of the Day The Democratic presidential hopeful denied that as California’s attorney general she opposed a bill that would have required her office to investigate police shootings. But she had expressed disagreement with its aims.  What Was Said Jake Tapper, CNN anchor: “When you were attorney general, you opposed legislation that would have required your office to investigate fatal shootings involving police officers. Why did you oppose that bill?” Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California: “So, I did not oppose the bill. I had a process when I was attorney general of not weighing in on bills and initiatives, because as attorney general, I had a responsibility for writing the title and summary. So I did not weigh in.” — at a CNN town hall in Iowa on Monday  Mr. Tapper was referring to Assembly Bill 86, introduced in the California Legislature in 2015, which would have required the attorney general’s office to appoint a special prosecutor to examine fatal shootings by the police. Ms. Harris, who formally entered the race for the Democratic presidential nomination this week, did not take a public position on the legislation in question. But she had expressed a general disagreement with its aims, and the bill’s sponsor said she declined to support it.  A spokeswoman for her campaign acknowledged on Wednesday that Ms. Harris “expressed that she had concern about taking discretion away from local district attorneys who are held accountable by their constituents.” Ms. Harris made statements to that effect in 2014 and 2016, and could have repeated this rationale during the CNN appearance.  In an interview with The San Francisco Chronicle before the police shooting bill was introduced, Ms. Harris said, “I don’t think it would be good public policy to take the discretion from elected district attorneys.” “I don’t think there’s an inherent conflict,” she said, adding, “Where there are abuses, we have designed the system to address them.” The bill was introduced in January 2015 by Kevin McCarty, a Democratic state legislator from Sacramento. Mr. McCarty, in an interview on Wednesday, said he reached out to Ms. Harris’s office in 2015 and asked for her to back the legislation. But, he said, “I wasn’t able to convince her department and her at the time to come out in support of the bill.”  The bill was endorsed by the American Civil Liberties Union of California and the N.A.A.C.P., but opposed by law enforcement groups like the California Peace Officers Association and the California State Sheriffs’ Association. Ms. Harris stayed out of the debate. Mr. McCarty said she might have been in a difficult position.  “For her, it was a balance, I knew, because she was the A.G. and had been a local district attorney prior, and local D.A.s think of this as infringing on local responsibilities,” he said. “I realize in politics that there is a lot of black and white.”  Even though Ms. Harris declined to support his bill, Mr. McCarty said that she eventually recommended further examination of fatal police shootings and that he was pleased that “she came around on the issue on the need for independent investigations.”  When Ms. Harris ran for the Senate in 2016, her position on the bill became the subject of scrutiny again. On matters like the police shooting legislation, “her absence is noticeable,” Holly Mitchell, a California state senator and member of the Legislative Black Caucus, told The Los Angeles Times. “In an interview, Harris said she didn’t support the measure, Assembly Bill 86, because it would have taken discretion from district attorneys,” The Sacramento Bee reported in May 2016. “Unless they have been shown to abuse their powers, she thinks they should retain them. Harris disputed that her relationship with law enforcement had bearing.” During a Senate debate in October 2016, former Representative Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat, criticized Ms. Harris’s opposition to the bill. Ms. Harris did not respond directly, and instead brought up Ms. Sanchez’ attendance record in Congress and spoke of her office’s efforts on reducing recidivism and increasing transparency. Ms. Harris also inaccurately stated during the CNN appearance that she did not weigh in legislation. She took positions on a host of other bills, for example, supporting legislation to expand voting rights to former felons, allow inmates more visits and access to rehabilitation programs and improve tracking of forensic evidence, and opposing statewide regulations on police officers wearing body cameras. Her spokeswoman said on Wednesday that Ms. Harris misheard Mr. Tapper’s question. She added that Ms. Harris did not take positions on ballot initiatives. The bottom line: While Ms. Harris was technically accurate that she did not take a position the police shooting bill, she had repeatedly expressed disagreement with its aims and declined to support the bill. Her statement that her silence on legislation was a matter of policy — which her staff said was an error — was also not accurate.  Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com.  Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu ", "id": "5c52234c3a125f5075c07322", "date": "2019-01-30T22:20:48+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Steps Into the Ring", "full_text": " California Today Good morning. (Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)  For weeks, she’s been on a national tour promoting her memoir. This month, Politico reported that she shut down her state campaign committee and donated the rest of the money she raised for a California race, about $1 million, to causes including the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights and a foundation that helps firefighters. But only as of yesterday — not coincidentally, Martin Luther King’s Birthday — was it official: Senator Kamala Harris is running for president in 2020. She announced her run on “Good Morning America,” not in her hometown, Oakland, as a local radio station’s sources had predicted earlier. She will, however, hold a rally there on Sunday. “The core of my campaign is the people,” Ms. Harris said later in the day at Howard University, the historically black college she attended in the 1980s. “Nobody is living their life through the lens of one issue. And I think what people want is leadership that sees them through the complexity of their lives and pays equal attention to their needs. Let’s not put people in a box.” Ms. Harris, who is just the second black woman to serve in the U.S. Senate, joins a diverse and increasingly crowded field of Democrats vying for the nomination. (Here’s a succinct guide to everyone who’s announced their candidacy and everyone who’s likely to join the scrum.)  Observers say Ms. Harris, a 54-year-old former California attorney general, could bridge generations of the party, both in terms of her age and experience and her positions. While she’s firmly a product of what she once described as San Francisco’s “hard-knocks politics,” Ms. Harris has also tried to align herself with Democrats’ leftward drift. After initially hesitating, she disavowed most corporate donations. Still, experts have suggested that her toughest criticism will stem from her time as San Francisco’s district attorney and the state’s attorney general. Already, in a stinging Op-Ed piece, a law professor wrote that Ms. Harris wasn’t the progressive prosecutor she claims she was. That prompted a response from a supporter and civil rights advocate who described Ms. Harris as a “voice for the voiceless and vulnerable,” when she was a prosecutor. In any case, experts think she’ll try to turn that vulnerability on its head, Politico reported, by presenting her law enforcement background as a foil to a “lawless” presidency. (A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.) • President Trump offered temporary protections for “Dreamers,” in exchange for $5.7 billion in border wall funding, as public backlash to the partial government shutdown continues to grow. But the offer was essentially dead on arrival. [The New York Times] • And here’s an update on where things stand with the shutdown. [The New York Times] • Have California’s reforms aimed at reducing the prison population affected crime rates? It’s a difficult question, but advocates say the state’s efforts over the last decade can serve as a national example. [The New York Times] • Striking Los Angeles public schoolteachers will stay off the job today, but Mayor Eric Garcetti said negotiations were going reasonably well. [The Los Angeles Times] • Pacific Gas and Electric’s recent woes largely stem from its electric network. But the utility has another big problem: Regulators said the company’s workers, under pressure from bosses, falsified gas pipeline records. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Though women’s marches around the country were smaller than in years past, thousands still turned up throughout California on Saturday. In Eureka, marchers were rained on but not rained out. [The Times Standard] • The Army Corps of Engineers is rushing to start the $500 million repair of Whittier Narrows Dam, because it has a high risk of failing and flooding one million Southern California residents in a severe weather event. [Los Angeles Daily News] • Bighorn sheep have been dying in the desert and scientists can’t figure out why. [The Desert Sun] • Tesla said it would cut 7 percent of its work force as it tries to break out of the niche car market. [Reuters] • After two thrilling games — albeit with controversial officiating performances — the Rams will face the Patriots in the Super Bowl. It’ll be a game of ages, with Jared Goff, taking the field as one of the game’s youngest starting quarterbacks, and Tom Brady, beating his own record as the Super Bowl’s oldest starting quarterback. [The New York Times] • “We’ve touched every blessed thing in that house — three generations of stuff. We know how to store it, how to find it again, and how to enjoy all of our things.” A Lomita couple who were on Marie Kondo’s Netflix show, “Tidying Up,” talk about keeping up the KonMari method. [Los Angeles Magazine] This morning, Tracee Ellis Ross and Kumail Nanjiani announced this year’s Oscar nominations. Our Carpetbagger columnist, Kyle Buchanan, wrote earlier about what to expect. Check back here for updates throughout the day. Jill Cowan: Is there any possibility the Oscars producers will try to do something splashy and unveil a surprise host between now and the ceremony? You wrote about why the ceremony could be better off without one.  Kyle Buchanan: I’m doubtful we’ll get a full-blown host, but I think the Academy is searching for big-name presenters who may get expanded duties — more than just reading light patter and standing to the side. I’d expect producers to announce those names once they’re locked in, since without a host out there giving interviews, the Oscars will need somebody to promote. Then again, the Academy has fumbled more than a few of their announcements over the past year, so maybe they’ll just keep mum and we’ll tune in with no idea what to expect. Is there a way you’ll be gauging whether the Academy has been responsive to #OscarsSoWhite criticism?  I think the #OscarsSoWhite conversation continues to be had in every part of the industry, not just the awards sector. Last year had some amazing movies directed by and starring people of color — among them, “Black Panther,” “If Beale Street Could Talk,” “Crazy Rich Asians,” “Widows” and “BlacKkKlansman” — and while not all of them found favor with Oscar, I think all the talk we’ve been having about representation has had a profound effect on what gets greenlit in Hollywood. And hopefully, with movies like “Black Panther” and “Crazy Rich Asians” having done so phenomenally well at the box office, Hollywood has an incentive to keep backing projects like this. And last one, just to ask: Your Best Picture winner prediction? You wrote about whether “Roma” can win, but it definitely has some obstacles.  This has got to be one of the most wide-open Best Picture fields I can remember. “A Star Is Born” was nominated by every guild, and is the sort of film Oscar voters usually go for — a critically acclaimed hit that’s about the entertainment business — though it hasn’t been able to take home a big prize yet. “Roma” is the critics’ favorite and Netflix is spending through the nose, but a foreign-language film has never won Best Picture, let alone a black-and-white one distributed by a streaming service. And then there’s “Green Book,” which recently took the top prize from the Producers Guild of America, the group that has the most sterling record for presaging the ultimate Best Picture winner. California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.", "id": "5c4723b23a125f5075c05a82", "date": "2019-01-22T14:07:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democratic Presidential Candidate Kamala Harris Releases 15 Years of Tax Returns", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Democratic U.S. Senator Kamala Harris released on Sunday 15 years of tax returns through 2018, offering the most complete look to date at a presidential candidate's finances. Harris held public office during the years 2004 through 2018. With her husband, Douglas Emhoff, an attorney, she had a combined adjusted gross income in 2018 of about $1.89 million, and paid total taxes of about $697,000, according to the returns. Harris and Emhoff, who have filed joint tax returns since marrying in 2014, have paid more than $2.2 million in federal taxes over the past five years at an average effective tax rate of 32.6 percent, according to her campaign. Harris' release of her tax filings follows that of fellow White House contenders like Senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Elizabeth Warren. Senator Bernie Sanders has said he will release his tax filings this week. Tax day is April 15 in the United States. Democrats in the 2020 race have released their tax returns as Republican President Donald Trump resists moves by congressional investigators to review his tax filings in probes related to his businesses and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Trump is the first modern U.S. president not to release his tax returns to the public.  After taking control of the House of Representatives in the 2018 elections, Democrats passed a bill that would require presidential candidates to release their tax returns. It has not been voted on by the Senate, which is controlled by Republicans, but Harris supports such legislation. Harris has also called for the repeal of the Republican tax law approved in 2017 that delivered major tax cuts to the wealthy and businesses. In 2018, about $157,000 of Harris and Emhoff's $1.89 million in income came from Harris' salary as a U.S. senator, with the bulk of the rest reported as partnership income from Emhoff's work at a law firm. Before her marriage to Emhoff, most of the income Harris reported each year was from the salary she earned as California's attorney general and, before that, as San Francisco's district attorney. (This version of the story corrects year of tax law to 2017 in paragraph 8)  (Reporting by Amanda Becker; Editing by Susan Fenton)", "id": "5cb322c649f0eacbf1f83e90", "date": "2019-04-14T12:07:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Kicks Off 2020 Campaign With Oakland Rally", "full_text": " OAKLAND, Calif. — Senator Kamala Harris of California officially kicked off her campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination on Sunday at an outdoor rally where she warned that the nation and the world were at “an inflection point” in history and called on all Americans to “speak truth about what’s happening” in the Trump era. Before a crowd that her advisers estimated at more than 20,000 people, Ms. Harris threaded together a biography from her years in the Bay Area with her work as a prosecutor and a senator, and set those details against a broader populist vision about “running to be president of the people, by the people and for all people.” [Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker] Ms. Harris, 54, who became the second black woman to serve in the United States Senate when she took office in 2017, has joined an increasingly crowded field of Democratic candidates that lacks a front-runner. The pack is the most diverse in history, with Ms. Harris among four women currently serving in the Senate or House who are now running for the Democratic nomination. In her remarks and at other recent events, she stressed unity and fighting for people, and her support for policies that are currently popular among Democrats, like “Medicare for all” and combating climate change. But she also laid out a vision of America and cast the 2020 election as a historic one. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our world,” she said at the rally in downtown Oakland. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our nation. We are here because the American dream and our American democracy are under attack and on the line like never before. And we are here at this moment in time because we must answer a fundamental question: Who are we? Who are we as Americans?” “When we have leaders who bully and attack a free press and undermine our democratic institutions, that’s not our America,” she said. “When white supremacists march and murder in Charlottesville or massacre innocent worshipers in a Pittsburgh synagogue, that’s not our America. When we have children in cages crying for their mothers and fathers, don’t you dare call that border security, that’s a human rights abuse!” Ms. Harris spoke of an America where “we welcome refugees” and denounced President Trump’s border wall plan as a “medieval vanity project.” Ms. Harris also pledged: “If I have the honor of being your president I will tell you this: I am not perfect. Lord knows, I am not perfect. But I will always speak with decency and moral clarity and treat all people with dignity and respect. I will lead with integrity. And I will tell the truth.” Among those at the rally were Lyndsey Schlax, 38, a school administrator, who attended with her husband and two sons. “I’ve been a big fan of Kamala for a long time,” said Ms. Schlax, who wore a “Phenomenal Woman” T-shirt that she said was produced by a relative of Ms. Harris’s. “I like how she’s not afraid to be strong.” Violet Sinnarkar, 20, from San Jose, who is currently a junior at the University of California-Berkeley, said many people she knew on campus were not fans of Harris. “They think she’s a cop,” Ms. Sinnarkar said about Ms. Harris’s years as district attorney of San Francisco and some past remarks praising law enforcement. But Ms. Sinnarkar said she came with an open mind: “I’m here to hear what she has to say.” While Ms. Harris’s work as a prosecutor has drawn some criticism, she sought to frame her record as focused on helping regular people. “In my whole life, I’ve only had one client: the people. And fighting for the people meant fighting on behalf of survivors of sexual assault. A fight not just against predators, but a fight against silence and stigma,” she said.    ", "id": "5c4e42c73a125f5075c069b0", "date": "2019-01-27T23:46:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Raised $12 Million in First Quarter for 2020 Bid, Her Campaign Says", "full_text": " Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   ", "id": "5ca2bb1349f0eacbf1f7ff5c", "date": "2019-04-02T01:28:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Raised $12 Million in First Quarter for 2020 Bid, Her Campaign Says", "full_text": " Senator Kamala Harris announced Monday night that her 2020 campaign raised $12 million in her first two-plus months running for president, a sum that is expected to vault her into the top tier of financial competitors in the wide-open Democratic primary. Ms. Harris, a first-term senator from California, invested heavily building an online network of donors in the two years leading up to her launch, spending millions of dollars to increase the size of her email supporter list. Her campaign said more than $6 million of her fund-raising — about half of her total — came from her digital program, including $1.1 million in the last week. Candidates must disclose their fund-raising figures for the first quarter of 2019 by April 15, though many release them earlier in an attempt to position themselves better politically ahead of the full report. Ms. Harris’s campaign said she had received 218,000 contributions in total and that 98 percent of her contributions were under $100. Her average donation was about $55. Her campaign did not say how much of her total those small contributions accounted for. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] “A nationwide network of hundreds of thousands of grass-roots supporters has stepped up to lay the foundation for a winning campaign,” said Juan Rodriguez, Ms. Harris’s campaign manager, in a statement. Ms. Harris has also raised money aggressively on the traditional fund-raising circuit and spent the final weekend of March dashing across California, from the Bay Area to Los Angeles, to raise as much as possible ahead of the first disclosure deadline of the 2020 race. Her campaign said only 0.55 percent of her individual donors gave the legal maximum of $2,800 — though that is still hundreds of contributors. Earlier on Monday, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised more than $7 million in the first quarter. Mr. Buttigieg’s campaign said he had 158,550 donors who gave an average donation of $36.35. About 64 percent of his $7 million came from contributions of less than $200. Neither Ms. Harris nor Mr. Buttigieg disclosed how much cash on hand their campaigns currently have. On Tuesday, senior advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders, who is widely expected to post the largest fund-raising haul this month, are scheduled to release his fund-raising figures. In emails to supporters, Mr. Sanders’s campaign has said he had nearly 900,000 contributions in the first quarter, writing in one email that donations were “about a $20 average this time.” His average donation was $27 in 2016, suggesting he has raised somewhere between $18 million and $24 million. Ms. Harris recently rolled out a plan to give every teacher in America a substantial raise, and her campaign said on Monday that she has received 11,000 donations from educators.   ", "id": "5ca2bb1349f0eacbf1f7ff5c", "date": "2019-04-02T01:28:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Carves Distinct Early-State Path in Her 2020 White House Bid", "full_text": " IOWA CITY, Iowa — U.S. Senator Kamala Harris held just one public event this week during her third trip to Iowa since joining the contest for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, a town hall at the University of Iowa where she talked about her plan to raise teacher pay. Harris, formerly California's top prosecutor, spent most of her two-day visit at private gatherings aimed at securing early support from specific constituencies - women, state lawmakers and educators.  Iowa hosts the first presidential nominating contest in February 2020, and Harris' early strategy in the farming state is considerably different than the traditional barnstorm politicking by some of her Democratic competitors. Former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke, for example, went to 23 events across 10 counties on his second trip to Iowa. U.S. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey attended 14 events in 11 counties during two visits, with a third scheduled next week. Harris' campaign thinks its targeted approach will allow her to build momentum in Iowa, while freeing up resources to invest more heavily in the path they see as crucial to her winning the Democratic nomination: California and the U.S. South.  \"Organizing looks very different right now than it will look a year or even six months from now,\" said Miryam Lipper, Harris' Iowa spokeswoman. \"Right now we're focused on introducing Kamala to Iowans and engaging with potential supporters in a smart way.\" Harris' tactics carry some risk. Iowa voters play an outsized role in picking U.S. presidents, and many have come to expect frequent face time with White House hopefuls. Harris aides say it is early in the race, and there could come a point when she crisscrosses Iowa's 99 counties.  However, Iowa likely will award just 41 of about 3,800 delegates available to win the Democratic nomination. While the campaign aims to do well there, aides say they do not think a first-place finish is as critical for Harris as it might be for other candidates needing a break-out moment. Early opinion polls show Harris in the top tier of more than 18 Democrats who have announced campaigns or are expected to. Harris, 54, supports a middle-class tax credit, Medicare for All government health insurance, the so-called Green New Deal proposal on climate change and the legalization of marijuana. Joshua Putnam, a professor at the University of North Carolina Wilmington who specializes in political primaries, said a candidate in Harris' position needs to meet expectations in Iowa and the subsequent New Hampshire primary to remain viable for the strategy to work. \"They likely do not need outright wins in either of the first two states, but that is not the only type of winning. One can win or lose relative to expectations as well,\" Putnam said. GRAPHIC-Who is running in 2020 - https://tmsnrt.rs/2Ff62ZC 'CAMP KAMALA' Harris' strategy was on display this week as she courted groups with the potential to influence their friends and neighbors. She met with Democratic state legislators on Thursday ahead of their session ending in May, when they will leave Des Moines and return to their districts. She secured her first endorsement from a party activist in Iowa before a house party hosted by members of a group that encourages women to run for office. Harris told the women the 2016 election of President Donald Trump, the likely Republican candidate in 2020, was an \"inflection point\" in U.S. history.  \"This is a moment in time that is requiring each of us as individuals and collectively to look in the mirror and ask a question ... who are we?\" Harris said at the gathering. \"And part of the answer to that question is we are better than this. So this is a moment in time then that we must fight for the best of who we are.\" Next week, Harris' campaign is hosting \"Camp Kamala\" to educate college students about Iowa's complex caucus process and her candidacy before they fan out across the state and the rest of the country for their summer break. While she is not ceding Iowa by any stretch, Harris' delegate strategy begins in earnest in Nevada and South Carolina, which hold the third and fourth nominating contests. Harris aides say they expect to do well in Nevada and believe it is important to have a strong showing or win in South Carolina, the first contest with a sizeable percentage of black voters. Harris, the daughter of immigrants from Jamaica and India, would make history as the first black woman to gain the nomination.  Her performance on so-called \"Super Tuesday\" in early March, when at least a dozen states will award about 40 percent of the delegates, will be critical, her campaign acknowledged. The southern states of Alabama, Arkansas, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia hold their nominating contests on Super Tuesday, as do delegate-rich Texas and California. Harris has already visited Texas, which will award more than 260 delegates, and California, where she has won statewide races three times, will award at least 475. Her campaign aims to invest as heavily in these states as they can, aides said. Jean Hessburg, the Iowa activist who endorsed Harris this week, said caucus goers understand \"this is a marathon and not a sprint.\" Candidates making dozens of stops across the state risk spreading themselves too thin, she added. \"By doing these targeted events, the idea would be it's more memorable,\" said Hessburg, who leads the Women's Caucus for the Iowa Democratic Party.  (Reporting by Amanda Becker; additional reporting by Joseph Ax and Timothy Reid; Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Grant McCool)", "id": "5cb0f11649f0eacbf1f83849", "date": "2019-04-12T20:10:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "For Kamala Harris, a Strong Start, but With Some Notable Stumbles", "full_text": " Political Memo ANKENY, Iowa — When Senator Kamala Harris came to Iowa last month shortly after entering the presidential race, she surprised some in her own party by breezily stating her support for a single-payer health care plan that would end private insurance. “Let’s eliminate all of that,” Ms. Harris said during a prime-time town hall event on CNN. “Let’s move on.” Her comments caused an immediate stir in the political world — and Republicans saw a chance to link her to a more extreme policy proposal than she perhaps intended. So when she returned to the state on Saturday, she had a much more precise answer ready when asked about universal health care. “In my vision of ‘Medicare for all,’ there would be a phasing in of it, and there would still be the option to have private insurance for the purposes of supplemental coverage,” she told a voter in suburban Des Moines whose question had actually been about how best to finance a single-payer system. Few other Democratic presidential hopefuls have enjoyed as splashy a start as Ms. Harris has: She drew 20,000 people to her formal campaign launch in Oakland, Calif.; raised $1.5 million in her first full day in the race; and has been talked about on social media more than any of her rivals, vaulting to the top tier of the rapidly growing field. But the candidate is still catching up to the campaign — and not just on health care policy. On issues ranging from breaking up big technology companies to the crisis in Venezuela to reparations for African-Americans — and even the allegations against the actor Jussie Smollett — Ms. Harris has not offered positions when asked, had to clarify her views and softened her previous comments. It is hardly unusual for candidates to stumble or appear ill at ease at the outset of the grueling political crucible that is a presidential campaign; even former President Barack Obama, who is remembered as a political phenom, struggled at times in the early weeks of the 2008 campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] But the scrutiny has grown even more intense since that race, and the margin for error is minuscule in a field with so many candidates. With the growth of political news outlets, the rise of social media, and the global interest surrounding President Trump and his re-election, high-profile candidates do not have the luxury of honing their stump speeches before a few dozen voters, and even fewer reporters, in a cozy Concord living room. Instead, there have been hundreds of attendees at many of the early gatherings featuring the best-known candidates — as well as dozens of writers and photographers eager to capture every moment. “There is no on-ramp today,” said Stephanie Cutter, a top aide in John Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign. “It’s instantaneous, which means it is harder for the candidates to work out their positions or decide their positions.” In this environment, it is perhaps not surprising that Ms. Harris’s first response on private health care echoed as loudly as it did. It was not just because of the implications for the nearly 60 percent of Americans who receive employer-based insurance — it was also because she made her remarks on live national television. Past campaigns did not feature made-for-cable-TV town halls more than a year before the first primary. Yet health care is not the only issue Ms. Harris, who was elected in 2016 to represent California in the Senate, has handled with uncertainty since she entered the race. Asked Saturday morning about the growing tensions in Venezuela, and specifically how to get aid into the country and whether America should consider using force there, she offered a brief answer with few particulars. “We need to take it very seriously,” Ms. Harris told reporters. “But I don’t know that at this point we need to, and I would not condone, military action at this point.” Later that afternoon, though, she offered a more detailed response on Twitter about what she called “a crisis” stemming from President Nicolás Maduro’s rule. “As President, I would immediately extend TPS status to Venezuelans,” she said, referring to temporary protected status for migrants. “It’s the right thing to do. America must show moral leadership in this hemisphere.” [Who’s in, who’s out, who’s still thinking: Check out our candidate tracker.] On reparations, Ms. Harris said, “Yes, I am,” in a radio interview this month when she was asked if she was in favor of what her interviewer called “some type of reparations” for black Americans affected by slavery. But when asked in another interview last week to be more specific, she highlighted her tax proposal for middle-class families, a more universal approach that is inconsistent with the definition of reparations. “I’m not going to sit here and say I’m going to do something that’s only going to benefit black people,” Ms. Harris told theGrio, a news website focused on African-American issues. In other instances, she appears uneasy committing to a policy at all, perhaps sensing a political hazard. On Saturday, for example, an Iowan asked Ms. Harris if she would favor eliminating the filibuster if Democrats controlled both chambers of Congress and the presidency, to more easily push through the party’s agenda. The urgent necessity of doing so has become an article of faith to many on the left. She initially joked that she wanted to change the subject, twice allowed that she was “conflicted” and did not offer a direct answer. “Sorry I can’t give you more than that right now,” she told the voter. Similarly, when a reporter asked Ms. Harris last month on her first campaign trip to South Carolina about Senator Elizabeth Warren’s suggestion that technology giants like Amazon should be subject to antitrust laws, the California senator sidestepped the issue, which is a delicate matter in her state. “I don’t know enough about what she’s proposing, but I’m happy to follow up with you,” Ms. Harris said twice. At a voter forum in Des Moines on Saturday, Ms. Harris said she did not want to be pegged in any fixed ideological category — a posture that can frustrate some progressive Democrats. “That was evasive,” said Ed Fallon, a liberal Iowa activist who attended the forum. “It’s clear that she wasn’t being clear.” Her how-will-it-play hesitation is also frustrating to some more pragmatic Democrats who believe the candidates should not try to meet some imagined standard of ideological orthodoxy. “They’re playing too assiduously to the critics of Twitter,” said Paul Begala, the longtime Democratic strategist. “And the truth is that doesn’t matter.” Mr. Begala said party activists were overwhelmingly fixated on defeating Mr. Trump and were unlikely to penalize a candidate if they think he or she is up to that job. “The scrutiny is far more harsh this time, but the voters are much more forgiving if they think you can win,” he said. Yet her response to the Smollett case may only reinforce her instinct for caution. Immediately after the actor, a gay African-American, said he had been attacked in Chicago by a pair of Trump supporters in what he described as a hate crime, Ms. Harris wrote on Twitter that the incident represented “an attempted modern day lynching.” But after the Chicago police last week accused Mr. Smollett of staging the attack and charged him with filing a false police report, Ms. Harris was caught flat-footed. Reminded by a reporter that she had called the case a “modern day lynching,” she appeared to look back toward her aides before offering a halting answer. “I think the facts are still unfolding,” she said. “I’m very concerned about obviously the initial allegation that he made about what might have happened.” The good news for Ms. Harris and all the Democratic candidates, Ms. Cutter said, is that “it’s O.K. not to have a position today” on some issues. “Voters just need to know you’re thinking about issues and are intellectually curious,” she said. That kind of leeway, she said, will disappear in just over three months, when candidates gather for the first Democratic debate. “When they have to stand onstage next to each other and debate each other, platitudes aren’t going to win the day,” said Ms. Cutter. Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c758f5349f0eacbf105a45c", "date": "2019-02-26T19:09:45+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Begins Wooing Voters Nationwide", "full_text": " California Today Good morning. (Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.) Senator Kamala Harris declared her candidacy for president last Monday — and over the weekend, she hit the campaign trail in earnest. She held her first public appearance on Friday at a South Carolina gala. Then, on Sunday, she held a rally in her hometown, Oakland; today, she’s headed to Iowa for a town hall. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our world,” she said at the Sunday rally, the official start to her campaign. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our nation. We are here because the American dream and our American democracy are under attack and on the line like never before. And we are here at this moment in time because we must answer a fundamental question: Who are we? Who are we as Americans?” My colleague Astead Herndon has been following and writing about Ms. Harris and her presidential bid. He was in Columbia, S.C., with her on Friday. So I asked him to share some of his impressions and analysis. Here’s what he had to tell us: Astead: South Carolina, which votes fourth in the Democratic primary and is particularly important because of its high percentage of black voters, has played host to several likely presidential hopefuls in recent days, including Ms. Harris’s Senate colleagues Cory Booker of New Jersey and Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The difference for Ms. Harris? She has been able to lean on her enormous network as a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., the country’s oldest black sorority. On Friday, she was the noted guest at the group’s annual Pink Ice Gala, which afforded her an audience of thousands of black South Carolinians at the ticketed event. “I’m so honored to celebrate with my sorors,” she said. “We stand on the shoulders of women who were leaders, who 111 years ago said to us that we must honor sisterhood and service.” The room was a preview of the electorate that could help slingshot her to victory. Older black residents, all dressed in black tie for the event, rushed the stage to get a photo with the presidential candidate, or to stream her speech on their social media channels. Ms. Harris did not mention her presidential candidacy in the short remarks, but the crowd knew this was the beginning of a long-term courtship. In a short gathering with reporters after, Ms. Harris said it was important to her to attend the event, to highlight the importance of black voters — and particularly black female voters — but also to share how much the sorority means to her. “My mother used to say, ‘You may be the first to do a lot of things, but make sure you’re not the last,’” Ms. Harris said. “It’s about bringing people with you.” (A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.) • In case you missed it: The government shut down is over — for now. [The New York Times] And Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to President Trump, was indicted. [The New York Times] • Two years after Mr. Trump signed orders to hire 15,000 new border agents and immigration officers, the administration has spent tens of millions of dollars in the effort — but has thousands more vacancies than when it began. [The Los Angeles Times] • California farmers are facing a squeeze on their livelihoods. There’s a labor shortage, a new state overtime-pay law and the Trump administration’s rhetoric over immigration. And it could all lead to higher prices up at the grocery store. [USA Today] • In a sign that Gov. Gavin Newsom might actually be treating affordable housing like a crisis, the state has sued the city of Huntington Beach, accusing it of willfully refusing to comply with state housing law. [The Orange County Register] • A California Highway Patrol officer leading the inquiry into a series of stabbings at a neo-Nazi rally targeted left-wing activists and victims rather than investigating armed white supremacists. [The Guardian] • In a five-paragraph post, Willie Brown, the former mayor of San Francisco, addressed the intrigue surrounding his having dated Ms. Harris. The post takes an odd turn around Paragraph 4. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger. [The New York Times] • Logan Green, the chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, may have to step into a more public role as his company and Uber race to go public. [The New York Times] • The Oakland A’s president, Dave Kaval, has unveiled plans for a gondola that would ferry fans from BART to the team’s proposed stadium at Howard Terminal. [The San Francisco Chronicle] • Justin Rose won the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines, protecting his status as the world’s top-ranked golfer. [The New York Times] • Are we watching the end of the monarch butterfly? Citizen scientists recently gathered in Bolinas to count them and the results were alarming. [New York Times Opinion] “It’s possible to have a great career without freezing every day,” the banner across a new San Diego marketing campaign says. Click. As The San Diego Union-Tribune has reported, an economic development group there is trying to bait millennials living in cold places to come to San Diego and work in science and technology by leaning on the city’s biggest asset. The campaign features a video, which opens by showing unrelenting snow and rain, which then gives way to a picturesque San Diego sunset. The campaign’s title? Just Say No to Winter. Consider me baited. California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.", "id": "5c4f11053a125f5075c06b15", "date": "2019-01-28T14:26:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Kamala Harris Is Running", "full_text": " Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat and barrier-breaking prosecutor who became the second black woman to serve in the United States Senate, declared her candidacy for president on Monday. She entered the race on the holiday of Martin Luther King’s Birthday, an overt nod to the historic nature of her candidacy. • The Democratic field for 2020 is getting more crowded by the day. Here’s an updated list of who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking it over. • From Washington to South Carolina to Harlem, Democrats across the country commemorated Martin Luther King’s Birthday with events that honored the slain civil rights leader and lashed out at President Trump as a racist. • After his blank schedule for the day drew criticism, Mr. Trump paid a brief visit to a national monument to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lay a wreath. • One month after the government’s partial shutdown began, its effects are hurting some of the most vulnerable Americans: homeless people, as well as those who are one crisis away from the streets. • Rudolph W. Giuliani is walking back a statement he made about Mr. Trump’s dealings with Russia. Though he first quoted Mr. Trump as telling him that negotiations over a Moscow skyscraper had continued through “the day I won,” on Monday he said his comments were “hypothetical” and not intended to convey facts. • Officials said that a Russian oligarch, Oleg V. Deripaska, had to make tough concessions in a deal to lift sanctions on three of his companies. But new documents show that the deal contains provisions that free him from hundreds of millions of dollars in debt. • While the Trump administration has cracked down on Russian officials, Mr. Trump himself has largely taken a far more generous stance toward Moscow. Here are five times the administration has been tougher on Russia than the president. • The Supreme Court agreed to hear a case about whether the owner of a clothing line with a name that’s a “phonetic twin” of a swear word is allowed to register a trademark for the term. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c46a9a83a125f5075c0595b", "date": "2019-01-22T05:27:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Declares Candidacy, Evoking King and Joining Diverse Field", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat and barrier-breaking prosecutor who became the second black woman to serve in the United States Senate, declared her candidacy for president on Monday, joining an increasingly crowded and diverse field in what promises to be a wide-open nomination process. The choreography of the announcement carried abundant symbolism: Ms. Harris entered the race on the holiday of Martin Luther King’s Birthday, an overt nod to the historic nature of her candidacy. Her timing was also meant to evoke Shirley Chisholm, the New York congresswoman who became the first woman to seek the Democratic Party’s nomination for president 47 years ago this week. In addition, Ms. Harris will hold her first campaign event on Friday in South Carolina, where black voters are the dominant force in the Democratic primary, rather than start off by visiting Iowa and New Hampshire, the two predominantly white states that hold their nomination contests first. She will hold a kickoff rally Sunday in Oakland, Calif., her hometown, and a town hall in Iowa later next week. “The core of my campaign is the people,” Ms. Harris said at an afternoon news conference at Howard University, the historically black college she attended in the 1980s. “Nobody is living their life through the lens of one issue. And I think what people want is leadership that sees them through the complexity of their lives and pays equal attention to their needs. Let’s not put people in a box.” Ms. Harris’s campaign is already facing skepticism from some in the party’s liberal wing, who believe she has lurched to the left only in recent years as preparation for a presidential campaign. She has repeatedly come under scrutiny from liberals for several “tough-on-crime” positions she took as a prosecutor in California, including defending the use of the death penalty as recently as 2015 and establishing a measure that sought to punish parents for chronically truant children. For the first time, the Democratic presidential race now includes several high-profile women, with Ms. Harris joining two other prominent senators, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York. Representative Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii Democrat, has also said she is running, and more women could enter the race in the coming weeks. Ms. Harris made her announcement during a morning interview on “Good Morning America.” She also released a video aimed at supporters and other Democrats, debuting a campaign slogan that played off her background as a prosecutor: “Kamala Harris For the People.” “The future of our country depends on you, and millions of others, lifting our voices to fight for our American values,” Ms. Harris said in the video. “Let’s do this together: For ourselves, for our children, for our country,” she said. Her announcement kicked off a day of tribute and outreach to black voters by Democratic presidential candidates and potential candidates. Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Bernie Sanders of Vermont made appearances, as did Ms. Gillibrand, Ms. Warren and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who expressed regret for supporting crime bills earlier in his career that have been criticized for disproportionately impacting black Americans. Ms. Harris’s long-expected entry comes as many Democrats are eager to find new leaders and as the party grasps for a unifying message that can appeal to its increasingly progressive base and more moderate voters who have recoiled from President Trump. A 54-year-old former California attorney general and San Francisco district attorney, Ms. Harris is something of a bridge between the Democrats eyeing the race who are in their 70s, like Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders, and those in their 40s, like Mr. Booker and former Representative Beto O’Rourke. Further, while she hails from one of the country’s most famously liberal cities, she has ties to both the pragmatic and leftist wings of the party: She is rooted in the Bay Area’s Democratic establishment but has embraced a more progressive agenda since being elected to the Senate in 2016. While other Democrats have focused their economic policy on regulating corporations or limiting the influence of Wall Street, Ms. Harris’s signature proposal is more focused on individuals and would provide lower-income families with monthly cash payments of up to $500. She has also proposed a bail reform bill that’s backed by several civil rights groups, and she focused her initial Senate work on curbing maternal death rates, particularly among black women. Like many Democrats, Ms. Harris has sought to align herself with the party’s leftward drift in recent years, proclaiming her support for “Medicare for All” and, after an initial hesitation, disavowing most corporate donations. She has also embraced the legalization of recreational marijuana, a position she once rebuffed. [Who’s in, who’s ready to join? Follow the Democratic field with The Times’s candidate tracker.] “She has long been a reform-minded prosecutor who struck a balance between the need for public safety and reckoning with civil rights ideals,” said Kristen Clarke, president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. But not everyone agrees that Ms. Harris can easily assuage Democrats worried about her record as a prosecutor and district attorney. “If Kamala Harris wants people who care about dismantling mass incarceration and correcting miscarriages of justice to vote for her, she needs to radically break with her past,” wrote Lara Bazelon, a law professor, in an opinion piece for The Times last week. Ms. Harris is still not yet well known to voters, but there is curiosity about her among the party rank-and-file as they face a Democratic nomination contest that is defined primarily by its uncertainty. Mr. Trump has thrust issues of race and identity to the forefront of the national debate, and with the Democratic coalition growing even more dependent on racial minorities, Ms. Harris — the daughter of a Jamaican father and Indian mother — would represent a history-making contrast in a general election against the president. As the first black woman in the Senate in over a decade, she garnered attention from her perch on key committees for her intensive interrogations of Trump administration officials and nominees, most famously during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing with former Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Did you have communication with Russian businessmen or any Russian national? Are you aware of any communications?” Ms. Harris asked Mr. Sessions during the tense exchange. “You let me qualify,’’ Mr. Sessions responded. “If I don’t qualify, you accuse me of lying, so I need to be correct as best as I can. I’m not able to be rushed this fast. It makes me nervous.” Ms. Harris focused her initial campaign message on broad themes of unity and revitalization, which emphasize her unique status as one of — if not the — most viable black women to ever run for president. Her announcement video borrows language from “Lift Every Voice and Sing,” the song and poem written in 1900 and long referred to as America’s “black national anthem.” She has been compared to former President Barack Obama, who also ran for president just two years after coming to the Senate. But unlike Mr. Obama, who became a political celebrity even before he arrived in Washington, Ms. Harris has made her name since being elected to Congress. “We can’t have business as usual, and I like that she’s not waiting her time — but she wants to make this time her own,” said Aaron Jenkins, a 37-year-old who works in education policy and attended the National Action Network’s breakfast honoring the King holiday on Monday. Her centrist standing in the party could also turn out to be an asset. Her campaign advisers, which include several people who helped shepherd her from San Francisco to Capitol Hill, believe she is well-suited to build coalitions within the Democratic electorate, because she is not tethered to a single faction. However, even before she formally entered the race, Ms. Harris was criticized by some in her own party. One of her top aides, Larry Wallace, resigned in December after revelations that he was involved in a harassment lawsuit and a $400,000 settlement while working for the California Department of Justice. Ms. Harris has said she did not know about the settlement, but she apologized and took “full responsibility” for hiring Mr. Wallace. Critics on Ms. Harris’s left have also called her record into question, pointing to a dramatic increase in the state’s prison population during her years in public office. “Kamala Harris is a cop” goes one often-repeated criticism that floods the senator’s social media accounts. “There were cases where folks who made a decision in my office and didn’t consult me and I regret that,” Ms. Harris said Monday when asked about some of her more controversial cases. “But there’s a lot of what I did as a prosecutor that I’m proud of.” A Quinnipiac University poll in mid-December illustrated Ms. Harris’s potential, finding her with a favorable rating among Democrats but with the majority of respondents still wanting “to hear more.” About 40 percent of Democrats had a favorable opinion of her, compared with just 4 percent who viewed her unfavorably. Ms. Harris, the first major candidate for president from California in over a quarter-century, could also benefit from changes to the 2020 nominating calendar. Her native state has moved up its primary to early March, immediately after the first four early-nominating states, presenting the possibility that she could capture a large trove of delegates just as the contest gets underway. Republicans were quick to denigrate her candidacy on Monday. “Kamala Harris is arguably the least-vetted Democrat running for president, but it’s already clear how unqualified and out of touch she is,” the Republican National Committee said in a statement, adding, “All she has to show for her brief time in the Senate is a radically liberal voting record.” Ms. Harris’s campaign will be based in Baltimore with a second office in Oakland. Among the staff members she announced Monday was Maya Harris, her sister, who was a senior adviser to Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign and will serve as Ms. Harris’s campaign chair. The campaign also premiered a logo that reads “Kamala Harris For The People” in blue and red letters across a yellow background. It was intended as another nod to Ms. Chisholm, who used a similar color scheme for her presidential campaign in 1972. Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.    OpinionLara Bazelon", "id": "5c45bbaa3a125f5075c057cf", "date": "2019-01-21T12:31:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Read Books by Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Other 2020 Presidential Candidates", "full_text": " Politicians’ memoirs can give insight into their values. More than 10 candidates have announced a bid for the presidency. Often, politicians release books pegged to their announcements to drive interest and give voters a chance to get to know them. Here is a complete guide to those books. (The list will be updated as announcements continue.) In this book, Sanders covers the two years since he last ran for president in 2016. The chapters are dated like diary entries, and in them Sanders lays out his policy positions and describes his travels across the country, advancing his progressive platform. The underlying theme of Klobuchar’s memoir is civility or, in her words, being able to “disagree without being disagreeable.” She traces her upbringing and rise in politics, all the while arguing that strategic alliances are crucial to solving the nation’s problems. Our reviewer calls Warren’s argument in this book “enlightened populism” — one vision of how the Democratic Party can lead after the 2016 presidential election upset. A former special adviser to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau under Obama, she calls for “restored financial regulation, stronger social programs and renewed investment in education, research and infrastructure” and also “makes good use of the autobiographical mode” by contrasting the opportunities she and her generation had — such as low-cost public universities — with stories of the current challenges of the middle class. Booker, raised in New Jersey and a former mayor of Newark, argues in this book that American politics should be reoriented around compassion and solidarity. He told The Times that writing it was “far, far more difficult than I had expected,” and he cried when writing about the toughest parts of his life, including the death of a mentor. Williamson, who previously ran for Congress as an Independent, announced a bid for presidency in January. She is running as a Democrat. The spirituality and new age lecturer has written dozens of books, including “Healing the Soul of America: Reclaiming Our Voices as Spiritual Citizens,” which was written in response to what Williamson viewed as a crisis in American morality. “A Politics of Love” renews this vision, calling for Americans to act out of love rather than fear. Buttigieg drew national attention when he wrote a coming-out essay for The South Bend Tribune, in particular because Mike Pence, who was governor of Indiana at the time, was championing a “religious freedom” bill that critics thought would discriminate against gays. In this memoir, parts of which our reviewer called “personal, beguiling and quite moving,” Buttigieg recalls this experience, as well as his career, from the Navy to politics. Yang, a Democrat, argues in his book that as technology continues to make many jobs obsolete, the government must take concrete steps to ensure economic stability for residents of the United States, including providing a universal basic income. This is the central promise of his campaign. In this memoir, the California senator covers her time as attorney general, as well as her upbringing in Oakland, Calif., as the child of immigrant parents: an economist father from Jamaica and a mother from India who was a cancer researcher. It includes pages of vintage and recent photos from Harris’s life. In this women’s empowerment guide, Gillibrand recounts her political career, making the argument that if women were better represented in government, so too would be their issues. Our reviewer wrote that though in some ways this book stuck to the conventions of the political memoir, “there are moments of immensely appealing self-disclosure that seldom appear in other books of this genre.” The through line in Castro’s book is his grandmother, who emigrated from Mexico when she was 9 years old and helped raise Castro and his twin brother, Joaquín. Castro, who was a former Democratic mayor of San Antonio, Texas, explains how access to quality schooling shaped his professional path.  In this forthcoming memoir, Gabbard will write about her military career, as well as how she became the first Hindu woman elected to Congress in 2012. Delaney was a businessman before he ran for Congress, and in this book, he writes about why he left the private sector and what politicians can learn from entrepreneurs.  Concepción de León is the digital staff writer covering literary news and culture for the Books Desk. Separately, she launched El Espace for the Styles section, a weekly column in which she writes about news and culture for a Latinx audience. She previously worked for Glamour magazine.  ", "id": "5c6712b13a125f5075c09f8d", "date": "2019-02-15T19:26:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Can Kamala Harris Repeat Obama’s Success With Black Voters? It’s Complicated", "full_text": " COLUMBIA, S.C. — As Senator Kamala Harris attempts her own version of former President Barack Obama’s historic rise from first-term senator to the White House, one of her political tests will be trying to secure the overwhelming support from black voters that buoyed Mr. Obama in 2008. Ms. Harris wants that support, but it does not come automatically. In many ways, she is well positioned: Ms. Harris is the most high-profile and politically connected black woman ever to run for president, and she can also draw on her powerful alumni networks from Howard University, one of the most prominent historically black colleges, and Alpha Kappa Alpha, the oldest black sorority. Yet interviews with more than 30 black voters and political leaders in early primary states like South Carolina and her home state, California, show that Ms. Harris faces challenges. She will have to persuade black activists skeptical of her record as a prosecutor; overcome sexism and a bias on the part of some voters that a female candidate cannot beat President Trump; and work to gain broader support from black men, who generally expressed more wariness about Ms. Harris in interviews than black women. She would also need to win over left-leaning young black voters, some of whom were ultimately disenchanted by Mr. Obama’s presidency and may value political ideology more than racial solidarity. Ms. Harris is aiming to appeal to voters of all races, of course. But black voters are a core constituency of the Democratic Party, and they will be decisive in key primaries like South Carolina’s. The 2020 Democratic field is expected to be crowded and competitive, so an advantage with black voters will be crucial — as Mr. Obama found in 2008. Ms. Harris is not likely to be the only black candidate reaching out to black voters, and several white candidates are sure to make enthusiastic pitches to these voters as well. [Check out the Democratic field with our new candidate tracker.] Ms. Harris has never been in a race where black voters made up such a sizable portion of the electorate, and she is already facing some questions after just her first week as a candidate. “Didn’t she do the three strikes stuff?” asked Tyrone Brown, a 48-year-old Columbia, S.C., resident, as he received a haircut and a shave. He was referring to Ms. Harris’s decision not to endorse a public effort to reduce the prison population by changing California’s punitive “three strikes” sentencing law. “I don’t know, I need to see her devotion to the African-American community.” Across the country in Oakland, Calif., Kijani Edwards, 34, was also wary. “Ten years ago, I was moved by Obama. I was in tears in November of 2008, we all celebrated up and down,” he said. But Mr. Obama did not bring the changes Mr. Edwards expected. “The banks got bailed out,” he said. “Interest rates got raised on the very citizens who bailed them out.” “I’m tired of having the conversation of voting for the lesser of two evils,” he added, referring in part to Ms. Harris. [Read here about Kamala Harris’s kickoff rally.] Ms. Harris has long drawn comparisons to Mr. Obama: Both began their political careers in urban, liberal centers and won Senate seats, becoming two of only 10 black senators in history. Mr. Obama, too, had to win over some black voters: A year before the 2008 Iowa caucuses, polls showed him trailing his main Democratic primary opponent, Hillary Clinton, among black voters. It was not until after Mr. Obama stunned Mrs. Clinton by winning in Iowa, a state dominated by white voters, that black voters began to coalesce around him. Ms. Harris starts out with an apparently strong base of support among older black women, the most reliable Democratic voting bloc. Black women’s votes helped propel Mr. Obama to the nomination in 2008 and helped Mrs. Clinton beat back a primary challenge from Senator Bernie Sanders in 2016. Ms. Harris handily won a presidential poll among women of color published in December 2018 by the political group She the People. Ms. Harris’s strategists have also conducted internal polling that they say shows backing from older black women. “Of course, I’m leaning toward us,” said Tammie Coleman, a 56-year-old health care worker in Columbia who was shopping for groceries at Walmart. “But honestly I just want a Democrat. Someone with some sense.” But young black activists have been troubled by what they see as a criminal justice record that undercuts Ms. Harris’s claim to be a civil rights ally. Millennial voters are paying attention: They are more likely to hear about a candidate on social media, where criticism of Ms. Harris’s tenure as a prosecutor has circulated, and their political consciousness has been shaped by the Black Lives Matter movement against police brutality. “Any black person that participates in a system that’s inherently racist, upholds it,” said Charles Lee, a 35-year-old Berkeley, Calif., resident, speaking on the day Ms. Harris announced her presidential run. While critics have decried some of her actions like upholding convictions obtained through official misconduct and opposing statewide standards for body cameras, Ms. Harris has said she worked to change California’s system from within and started programs to divert low-level drug offenders away from prison and into schools and jobs long before other district attorneys were following suit. Criminal justice reform and addressing issues like police brutality are not peripheral issues for the younger generation of black voters, but a litmus test for a candidate, said DeJuana Thompson, founder of the millennials-focused advocacy group Woke Vote, and Cornell Belcher, a political strategist who conducted polling for both Obama campaigns. “I’m going to have some point of caution with anybody who used to be a prosecutor,” said LaTosha Brown, co-founder of the Black Voters Matter Fund, which mobilizes black voters. “The entire system is flawed, the way that people are prosecuted, and the unfairness that black people experience in the court system,” Ms. Brown said. Perceptions of candidates are fluid this early in the campaign, and Ms. Harris has a year to introduce herself to the public and defend her record before voting begins in the 2020 Iowa caucuses. On Monday night at a town hall-style meeting in Des Moines televised on CNN, Ms. Harris drew attention for saying she would be O.K. with eliminating private insurers in an effort to achieve Medicare-for-all. Her campaign, in a statement issued after this article first published online, expressed optimism about her prospects. “She’s only been a candidate for one week and we’ve already seen unprecedented enthusiasm for her candidacy that cuts across demographics, background, income, and region,” said Ian Sams, campaign press secretary. He added that in her entire career, “she has defied expectations at every turn and succeeded.” Ms. Harris is not alone among current and potential 2020 Democrats who may face skepticism from some black voters. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. was an architect of the 1994 crime bill that many criminal justice advocates detest, and others, such as Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, have previously taken positions on issues like gun control that are controversial on the left. Political scientists who specialize in studying black voters’ decision-making say Ms. Harris’s presidential candidacy also represents an intriguing case study of how they may weigh race against gender on the national political stage. Research analyzing what black voters do when selecting between male and female black candidates has largely been confined to local races, said Theodore R. Johnson, a senior fellow at the Brennan Center for Justice. If Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey decides to run, as expected, research suggests he could siphon black male voters from Ms. Harris, Mr. Johnson said. Black men vote for black female candidates in higher numbers than their white male counterparts, he said, but the presence of Mr. Booker could upend that equation. “Party is, by far, the controlling factor in how black folks vote, so if Kamala Harris was against Donald Trump, she doesn’t have to worry about losing black men to Donald Trump any more than Hillary Clinton had to worry about it,” Mr. Johnson said. “But in a primary, if both Booker and Harris are running and both of them have viable candidacies — which is another requirement — then black men are likely to defect from Kamala at a noticeable rate.” “It’s the gender card that helps him with black men,” he said. Gender came up in South Carolina last week, in interviews with black male voters about Ms. Harris in barbershops, on college campuses and at grocery stores. Several used terms — like “strength” and “aggressive” — that political scientists view as code language for questioning women’s leadership. Ms. Harris attracted national attention grilling Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and Jeff Sessions during Senate hearings, to the point that Mr. Sessions admitted he was “nervous.” “She’s a woman,” said Nathaniel Stewart, a 58-year-old barber. “And we need strong backs right now. I don’t know if she can pull off that type of strength to take on Trump. I’d rather Cory.” Tyrone Hutchinson, 40, said he thought it was time for a woman to become president, but he said some black men with “traditional values” would not support Ms. Harris. Mr. Brown said he preferred Mr. Booker because he did not think Ms. Harris could be “aggressive” enough to “battle with Trump.” James Moore, a 62-year-old truck driver, said while he could vote for a black woman, he would prefer Mr. Booker or Mr. Biden, because he wondered if the country was ready to elect a black woman. “Ms. Harris seems like a decent person,” Mr. Moore said, “but I just don’t think she’d have a chance, and I don’t want to throw away my vote.” But nonwhite women — more than men — represent the core voting base of the Democratic primary and are arguably the most important constituency for any Democratic nominee. At Ms. Harris’s first two public appearances since announcing her candidacy, the Pink Ice Gala in South Carolina and her Oakland kickoff rally Sunday, black, Latina and Asian women turned out in droves to witness the launch of her candidacy. Rozena Harten, of Oakland, said she did not believe Ms. Harris’s candidacy depended on black male support. “I think black women are more involved,” Ms. Harten said. “I’m tired of men.” Tiffany Stevenson, 44, also a member of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, said she was “really energized” by Ms. Harris’s speech at the Oakland rally. “I think it shows the type of America I think America wants to become.” In 2014, a research paper from the Center for American Progress, a liberal advocacy organization, argued that the main lesson from Mr. Obama’s victory in 2008 was that the Democratic Party needed to invest more in organizing and motivating nonwhite women, and specifically black women. “As their numbers increase and their participation grows, women of color will increasingly have the chance to sway electoral results, influence which candidates run and win, and play a greater role in shaping the policy agenda,” the paper argued. The author of that paper? Maya Harris, then a senior fellow at the organization. Ms. Harris is now the chairwoman for her sister’s presidential campaign. Stacey Solie contributed reporting from Oakland, Calif.   ", "id": "5c5024323a125f5075c06d7e", "date": "2019-01-29T10:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics With Lisa Lerer: The Kamala Harris Factor", "full_text": " Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. When people talk about the emerging 2020 Democratic primary field, it can sound an awful lot like the opening lines of a children’s book. One candidate, two candidates  Old candidates, new candidates Some are slightly left, some are far Say! what a lot of candidates there are. But there’s one thing many leading Democrats seem to agree on: Kamala Harris is a formidable contender. When you ask 2020 candidates, likely candidates and members of their teams what possible opponent they worry about, the California senator’s name comes up frequently. Those concerns only grew on Monday when Ms. Harris formally announced her presidential bid: She matched Senator Bernie Sanders’s record by raising $1.5 million from 38,000 donors in the first 24 hours of her campaign. So why is a first-term senator, with little experience outside California state government, making Democrats so nervous? • She doesn’t fit into a neat ideological lane. As my colleague Astead Herndon wrote on Monday, Ms. Harris comes out of the Bay Area’s Democratic establishment. But since joining the Senate in 2017, she’s embraced elements of a Sanders-lite liberal agenda, backing “Medicare for All” and rejecting most corporate donations. As a result, her team argues, she can appeal to a wide array of factions in the party. • She would make history. Should she prevail in the primary season, Ms. Harris would be the first African-American woman and the first person of Asian heritage to be a major party nominee. As a graduate of Howard and a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, the oldest black sorority, Ms. Harris has deep ties to the black community. • The primary map favors a candidate who can win strong support from black voters — and California. It’s no accident that Ms. Harris is making her first campaign stop on Friday in South Carolina, where African-Americans will likely make up a majority of the electorate in that state’s early primary. The rising popularity of early voting also means that primary voters will start casting ballots in her native state of California on the day of the Iowa caucuses; in diverse states of Illinois and Ohio, voters can start casting early ballots before New Hampshire holds its primary. After Iowa and New Hampshire, the race moves to potentially favorable terrain for Ms. Harris: Nevada, which borders California and has a large Latino population, then South Carolina. Then, on Super Tuesday, California will be among the states voting, as will four southern states where black voters made up more than a quarter of the 2016 primary electorate. Even with these advantages, Ms. Harris still has plenty to worry about. Already, she’s fending off attacks on the “tough-on-crime” positions she took as a prosecutor in California. In her first remarks after announcing her campaign, Ms. Harris described the criminal justice system as “horribly flawed.” And her liberal bona fides may be found lacking by an insurgent wing that is ascendant in the party. Obviously Ms. Harris does not have anything locked down. (Need I take you back to the winter of 2007, when Hillary Clinton led primary polls by double digits.) We’re in the early stages of what will likely be a very, very long primary contest. A lot can happen. Just ask Howard Dean. ____________________ Advisers to former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. are circulating a document to his supporters that outlines a rationale for him to run for president and rebuts potential lines of attack — the latest indication that Mr. Biden is leaning toward a 2020 bid but has not yet fully committed. The talking points, which were sent to The Times’s Jonathan Martin by an ally of Mr. Biden, reflect some of his core arguments he would make if he does enter the Democratic primary. He and his advisers contend that his long experience in politics — he served in the Senate for over 35 years — would represent an appealing contrast to President Trump’s erratic style. “In a time of almost unprecedented political chaos under a President whose first and last thought every day is about himself, his image, and using the most powerful office in the world to enrich himself, Americans are reacting to — and looking for — the trustworthy, compassionate leadership that Joe Biden has brought to the national and international stage his entire career,” the document states. But what is more revealing about the 10-paragraph document is that Mr. Biden and his small circle of aides feel the need to sketch out his message before he announces his candidacy. It is, a Biden ally said, “a distillation of his thinking.” The decision to put these thoughts on paper while other Democrats are announcing full-blown campaigns indicates Mr. Biden is still eager to gauge reaction to his candidacy before taking the plunge. To that end, the talking points attempt to grapple with some of the most frequent critiques of Mr. Biden: • That his initial lead in some Democratic primary polls is simply based on name identification and will melt once other candidates become better known? “He is passionate, he is empathetic, he is trustworthy — and voters know these things about him,” the document states. “It’s why he’s atop so many polls — it’s not because voters know his name, it’s because they know his character.” • That he is too moderate for today’s Democratic voters and will struggle with liberals? “He was outspoken on LGBTQ rights even when every pundit around said that it was a political mistake,” according to the talking points, adding that he also sought to address climate change early in his career and is an unwavering ally of organized labor. • At 76, Mr. Biden may be too old to run for president? He campaigned for nearly 70 candidates, across the ideological spectrum, “across 26 states in the last two years.” Stay tuned, folks. ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ Catholic high school students from Covington, Ky., found themselves in the middle of a national firestorm last weekend after videos surfaced showing dozens of students appearing to be in a standoff with an older Native American man. More videos later emerged that complicated the story, showing the encounter had been preceded by African-American protesters, who identified themselves as Hebrew Israelites, shouting slurs at the students. The incident has emerged as a kind of Rorschach test for views on politics, race and the Trump administration. We talked to Elizabeth Dias, The New York Times religion correspondent who was in Covington, about what she discovered about our political culture. Lisa: Why did this video touch such a nerve?  Elizabeth: There are these flash points now in our political culture. This one was particularly polarizing because it touched every nerve — race, President Trump and the behavior of young white men. As a religion reporter, I’ve covered a lot of sensitive topics and the level of vitriol and aggression from the right and the left about every part of this story is remarkable. Some of the people involved in the videos have been experiencing threats of violence all weekend.  So what did you learn about the context for these videos?  When you actually are on the ground, in the kids’ community, you start to get an idea of the cultural context behind these kinds of inflamed moments. The school is in an overwhelmingly white, heavily Republican and Catholic area. The boys in the video, their school is known around town as the “Colonel Crazies” for their intense school pride and their all-male brotherhood. And now the Catholic community and the parents of these kids are joining together to protect them. The last time the country was this intensely focused on Catholic high school boys was during the Kavanaugh hearings. This time we’re seeing it in a pocket of the country that fueled Mr. Trump’s election. And with the videos, there’s now this fight over whose narrative wins out. What does this incident tell us about our political culture? So Covington, where this happened, is right across the river from Cincinnati. The Covington area voted for Mr. Trump in 2016, while the Cincinnati area has become increasingly blue. They are very close, but may have very different realities of what it is to be American. How have politicians tried to capitalize on this episode? Mr. Trump jumped into the fray praising the Covington Catholic boys and used the moment to attack the media. I wouldn’t be surprised if the kids get a visit to Washington or the White House or even the State of the Union, if it happens. The right already sees this as part of their narrative — that Christians are under attack. ____________________ • Furloughed federal workers try to join the gig economy. One woman’s haul on Uber? Less than $4. • Sneaking drugs through tunnels, in cans of jalapeño and passenger cars. The trial of drug lord El Chapo’s suggests that President Trump’s border wall may not do much to stop smuggling. • “Almost everyone is calling for ‘Mommy’ or ‘Mama’ with the last breath.” The understudied linguistic science of last words. ____________________ A Swedish film festival plans to hold “sarcophagus screenings,” recruiting volunteers to watch a sci-fi film in custom-made, sealed coffins. “Our goal was to find a way to take the experience of the film, and the apocalypse, further,’’ Jonas Holmberg, the director of the Goteborg film festival told The Hollywood Reporter. “To take the sense of aloneness and claustrophobia and strengthen it.” Isn’t the goal of humanity to keep the apocalypse farther away? _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c47b2af3a125f5075c05c2a", "date": "2019-01-23T00:17:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris Is Hard to Define Politically. Maybe That’s the Point.", "full_text": " If Senator Kamala Harris’s book tour is a preview of her likely presidential campaign, the early signs point to a catchall message meant for Democrats across the spectrum. Speaking Friday night at the 92nd Street Y on New York’s Upper East Side, Ms. Harris covered many bases: her origin story from Oakland to Capitol Hill, what drew her into public life and the importance of voters “seeing themselves” reflected in the nation’s array of leaders. She cited her work to reform the juvenile criminal justice system in California as one of her biggest policy accomplishments. She talked about the necessity for Democrats to work in a bipartisan fashion while standing strong against a White House that many of their voters view as corrupt. It was a broad, biography-heavy message — not a rigid ideological mantra — meant to lay groundwork for a national profile as she prepares a next possible step: joining a growing field of Democrats who will compete to take on President Trump. “Anything worth fighting for is a fight worth having,” Ms. Harris said. “There is a democracy in place, and if we fight — maybe we won’t win all the time — but it will matter.” But as some audience members noted after her remarks, and voters nationwide may learn soon, almost everything about Ms. Harris is more complex than it appears. Though rated as one of the most liberal members of the Senate, Ms. Harris speaks less about Wall Street corruption and economic populism than do Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, two fellow senators who are also looking to a 2020 matchup against Mr. Trump. Ms. Harris has built a devoted following because of her Senate committee interrogations of Trump administration officials, but she remains disliked by some criminal justice activists who say her policies as California attorney general and San Francisco district attorney helped increase the state’s prison population. Even her race and her life story — she is often described as one of two African-American women to have served in the Senate — are more textured in context: She has a Tamil Indian mother and a Jamaican father and spent some of her teenage years in Montreal. Ava Leegant, a surgeon from San Francisco who came to the event skeptical of Ms. Harris’s presidential chances, said she left bullish about her appeal. “I didn’t think someone from California could speak to all parts of the country,” Ms. Leegant said, “but I was impressed.” “She’s my first choice to be my first choice,” said Betsy Kagen, a 33-year-old film editor who attended the talk. The themes of Ms. Harris’s new book, “The Truths We Hold: An American Journey,” could help her stand out in a crowded Democratic presidential primary. More than a dozen candidates are expected to join the presidential race in the coming months, and as the party searches for its next iteration after two decades of dominance by the Clintons and Barack Obama, questions of policy, identity and tone in the campaign will be paramount. Longtime strategists and admirers of Ms. Harris believe she is well positioned to create electoral coalitions among Democrats desperate to beat Mr. Trump, partly because she is not tethered to any one of the divergent and sometimes warring factions of the party. On MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Friday morning, Ms. Harris was asked, “Why would you want to be president?” and responded by citing the need for leaders who have a “vision of our country in which everyone can see themselves.” “Her message of unity, that’s the key,” said Valoree Celona, a 50-year-old insurance executive who came to the 92nd Street Y with friends. “If she can get people to have that hope again, that’s what’s important. That’s what President Obama did.” But Ms. Harris would also need to grapple with Democratic rivals who are more ideologically liberal and may try to move the debate to the left in ways that could force difficult choices for her. Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator and 2016 presidential candidate who is considering running again, has demonstrated an ability to shift conversation toward more populist themes like free public colleges and campaign finance reform. Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts senator who became the first major candidate to announce presidential intentions and head to Iowa, has drawn attention for challenging Democratic candidates to propose a more broad restructuring of American society that would address economic inequality. Ms. Warren rarely mentioned Mr. Trump on the campaign trail, and is pushing primary candidates to have a more policy-driven discussion. “We need change,” Ms. Warren said at multiple stops during her Iowa trip. “And not just one statute here or one law there. We need big structural change.” Rebecca Katz, a progressive political consultant based in New York who is not working for a 2020 candidate, said she believes that women and nonwhite candidates are scrutinized more than white male politicians, yet hopes that Ms. Harris will embrace bold ideas and tell more of her personal story even if it seems risky. Mo Elleithee, the former spokesman of the Democratic National Committee who now leads Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service, said that much of the country is still unaware of Ms. Harris, and that she has time to refine a national narrative that resonates with many groups of Democrats. Reviews of Ms. Harris’s book have been mixed, as critics have accused her of not adequately grappling with several controversial stances she took as California attorney general and others have characterized it as overly reliant on political clichés. In the memoir, which was released simultaneously with a children’s book by Ms. Harris called “Superheroes Are Everywhere,” she repeatedly writes that she does not believe in “false choices.” This can mean both meaningful workers’ rights and a strong economy, she writes at one point, but she also applies the concept to police accountability and public safety. “I know how hard it is for the officers’ families, who have to wonder if the person they love will be coming home at the end of each shift,” Ms. Harris writes. “I also know this: It is a false choice to suggest you must either be for the police or for police accountability. I am for both. Most people I know are for both. Let’s speak some truth about that, too.” Sean Clegg, a longtime political adviser who is expected to play a senior role in any presidential campaign from Ms. Harris, said that if she ran she would discuss issues like income inequality, but that the message would be coupled with a call for partisan healing. Paul Berkman, a 72-year-old New Yorker who attended the book talk, said he wished Ms. Harris talked about more policy ideas during her conversation, which was moderated by the poet Cleo Wade. Mr. Berkman said he left not knowing her answer to the “why-are-you-running-for-president” question every candidate faces. “She seems like a likable person, but there’s so many candidates — I want someone to verbalize why it should be them,” he said. Sarah Weiss, a 33-year-old book editor, said she was disappointed by Ms. Harris’s talk, especially after the heavy policy focus of Ms. Warren’s trip to Iowa. “My concern is that she’s not liberal enough, and she talks in clichés that are kind of meaningless,” Ms. Weiss said of Ms. Harris. “She keeps saying there’s more that connects us than divides us, but at this time in politics, it seems like that’s not enough.” At that point her friend Rachel Steinberg chimed in: “She is not running for president yet! She doesn’t need a platform.” They agreed to disagree.    ", "id": "5c39baae3a125f5075c040df", "date": "2019-01-12T10:00:10+0000"}]