[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Special Edition: Robert Mueller Submits His Report", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The investigation that has consumed the country and cast a shadow over the Trump presidency for almost two years has come to a close. Friday, March 22nd, 2019 michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The New York Times. Background reading: It is now up to the attorney general, William P. Barr, how much of the report to share with Congress and with the American public. Read the latest updates here. Will the report be made public? Will President Trump see the report? Here are answers to six key questions. Here’s what we already know about the work done by Mr. Mueller. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “Special Edition: Robert Mueller Submits His Report” was produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c9563a749f0eacbf105e990", "date": "2019-03-22T22:35:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Now Comes Washington’s Garbo, Robert Mueller", "full_text": " Opinion Columnist WASHINGTON — I got a call at 3 p.m. on Friday from the Washington electric company telling me that a manhole in front of my house was smoking, that the underground cable to my house had burned up because it was old and that all the power in my house was out. “I can’t come home now,” I told the electric guy. I was extremely busy doing what everyone else in town was doing — nothing. Waiting. My house was the least of it — the whole city was short-circuiting. After word spread that Robert Mueller was going to deliver his report to the Justice Department at noon on Friday, a fog of anxiety crept in on little cat feet. (Sorry, Carl Sandburg.) After the president flew off to Mar-a-Lago, the skies darkened and rain pelted down. We drank coffee and waited. We ate burgers and waited. We watched basketball and waited for Mueller’s March Madness. All day, cable chatterers ranted about this being a significant moment in American history, but no one was sure yet what the significance was. As William Goldman once said of Hollywood, “Nobody knows anything.” And as Tom Petty sang, “The waiting is the hardest part.” Democrats yearned to have Mueller scream “Collusion!” like Marlon Brando once screamed “Stella!” And come to the podium to announce: “This is a real national emergency. The president is a Russian agent and needs to go immediately, along with his family.” They wished Bobby Boy Scout would go up to the Capitol and act like Rachel McAdams’s Regina George in “Mean Girls,” when she strides down the halls of the school scattering pages into the air that she had copied from the dishy Burn Book. No chance. The 74-year-old, an Ivy League graduate and a decorated Marine in Vietnam, is so meticulous that he would not even deviate to wear a blue shirt when he ran the F.B.I., seeing that as compromising his integrity. He has run the only disciplined, airtight operation in the undisciplined, leaky Trump era. Not even Rudy Giuliani, the president’s lawyer, knew what was happening when The Times’s Katie Rogers tracked him down at the Trump hotel at 1:30 p.m., as he sat at a table in the lobby and worked his cellphone trying to get information. No one, from the president on down, knew exactly when the report would come or what it would say. With his usual bravado about his base, Trump told Fox’s Maria Bartiromo that “people will not stand for it” if the report was damning. All we really knew was that this was a pivotal moment, not only for Trump but also for his Javert. If the special counsel delivered a weak gruel, after all the time, money, newsprint and digital space lavished on it, people would demand to know why he hadn’t pulled the plug long ago. Still, no one knew for sure. It was not thought that Trump would be indicted, because Justice Department rules say a president can’t be indicted. So, the question was: Would Mueller imply that the only thing that saved Trump from an obstruction charge was the fact that he was sitting in the Oval Office? How much evidence would Mueller show that Trump actually tried to obstruct justice? As Happy Hour approached, Attorney General William Barr notified White House and congressional leaders that Mueller had delivered his report. The two Republicans are good friends who go back decades, a fact that startled Trump when Barr mentioned it during his confirmation hearings. (When Barr was attorney general the first time, under George H.W. Bush, he was Mueller’s boss, when Mueller led the criminal division.) In his letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Barr said he might be able to brief them on the main conclusions of the report this weekend. The Justice Department said no more indictments were coming in the Russia investigation. Could Don Jr. and Jared have shaken off the bloodhounds? The scene Friday was far more occluded than the media hullabaloo on Sept. 9, 1998, when two dark vans pulled up to Capitol Hill with 36 boxes containing Ken Starr’s report on presidential chicanery. Starr was a star leaker and showboat, and journalists and the public were quickly able to get their hands on the document on which the fate of the Republic was hanging. It was something of a shock to learn that the supposedly dignified independent counsel — who was once on a shortlist for the Supreme Court — had delivered a 445-page bodice ripper, a trite story of an office affair in all its seamy particulars, told with such sanctimony that it was redolent of Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was clear that the sins recorded were not black enough to merit impeachment. Politicians in Washington have been having illicit sex and lying about it since George Washington slept here. But that didn’t stop Republicans from impeaching Bill Clinton that December. In the end, the reputation of Starr and the hypocritical Republicans, some of whom were having their own affairs with young government aides, suffered. And the country suffered as well. Clinton came out more popular, until #MeToo caught up with him. As much as Trump will spin victory and claim it’s all over, Friday was not the end of what the president tweeted was “the World’s most expensive Witch Hunt.” Democrats, aflame with investigative zeal, demanded that the report be made public and all of Mueller’s files be turned over to Congress. Mueller may be winding down, but the Democrats are just getting wound up. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.   OpinionThe Editorial Board OpinionNoah Bookbinder OpinionCaroline Fredrickson", "id": "5c9593ec49f0eacbf105e9e2", "date": "2019-03-23T02:01:55+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Robert Mueller, Israel, Parkland: Your Monday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering the long-awaited results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russian election interference, the end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate in Syria, and an abbreviated visit to Washington by Israel’s leader. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, found no evidence that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to influence the 2016 presidential election, according to a summary of the key findings of his nearly two-year investigation that was made public on Sunday by Attorney General William Barr. The special counsel, Mr. Barr said, stated that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him” of illegally obstructing justice. Nevertheless, Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, announced that there was insufficient evidence that President Trump had committed that crime. Read: Here’s the four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s findings. Democrats have called for the release of the full report. News analysis: The end of the investigation has lifted a cloud over Mr. Trump’s presidency and fortified him for the battles to come, our chief White House correspondent writes. The Daily: On today’s episode, two of our reporters discuss the findings. Calling the special counsel’s investigation an “illegal takedown that failed,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday: “It’s a shame that our country had to go through this. To be honest, it’s a shame that your president has had to go through this.” The White House does not yet have the full report, a spokesman said, and it was not clear when, or even if, the president would get complete access. What’s next? Federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other investigations that grew out of Robert Mueller’s work. The end of his investigation also offers clarity to the Democrats who hope to beat Mr. Trump in next year’s election.  Perspective: In an Op-Ed, the lawyer who drafted the regulations under which Mr. Mueller was appointed says that the attorney general’s unilateral conclusion that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice makes it imperative that the public see the full report. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is supporting two new measures as part of an effort to tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language, an issue that has divided Democrats in the House. The measures will be promoted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.  Related: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is cutting short a visit to the U.S. after a rocket attack from Gaza injured seven people near Tel Aviv today. He said he would return to Israel after meeting with President Trump. A century after women were first allowed to serve, they make up 8 percent of the Marines, the lowest percentage of any U.S. military branch. An award-winning war photographer for The Times followed a handful of female recruits as they went through basic training at Parris Island, S.C. Perspective: In an Op-Ed, a woman who spent 20 years in the Marines says that the corps still has lower expectations for female recruits. Half of humanity lives in cities, the main generators of planet-warming gases. That means the big fixes for climate change need to come from cities, too.  Copenhagen is home to 624,000 people and aims to be carbon neutral — generating more renewable energy than the dirty energy it consumes — by 2025. The Danish city’s experience shows what’s possible, and what’s difficult. ISIS “caliphate” crumbles: A four-year battle to free territory in Iraq and Syria ended over the weekend, as American-backed forces seized the last village held by the militants. A fix for Boeing: Pilots have met with company executives to discuss proposed changes to the 737 Max, two of which have crashed in recent months. Anti-Brexit march: Hundreds of thousands crowded London streets on Saturday to demand a second referendum over Britain’s departure from the European Union. Parliament has twice rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal plan but is set to consider it for a third time this week. Parkland grieves again: A survivor of last year’s mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., has been found dead in an apparent suicide, the second such death in a week. Cruise ship rescue: A Viking cruise ship that set out with more than 1,300 people limped into port in Norway on Sunday after experiencing engine trouble in rough weather. Earlier, some passengers were airlifted, one by one, from the ship’s deck.  Voting in Thailand: A pro-military party was on track today to capture an unexpectedly large number of seats in the weekend’s elections, probably allowing the army, which staged a 2014 coup, a license to continue its hold on power. Snapshot: Above, an imam recited the adhan, or call for prayer, on Sunday at the Linwood Mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand. The mosque, one of two where 50 people were killed this month, reopened this weekend. Apple’s next act: The tech giant is set to unveil today a news and entertainment bundle that is expected to offer access to magazines, newspapers, music and, perhaps most intriguingly, original shows and films. Netflix is one of the big players that won’t be a part of it. N.C.A.A. basketball: It’s not a year for Cinderellas. In the men’s tournament, the round of 16 will include 14 of the top seeds, which hasn’t happened since 2009. The favorites have also dominated in the women’s tournament, the second round of which concludes today.  What we’re reading: This Gizmodo piece about an adventure on one of the motorized e-scooters in San Francisco. Mike Isaac, one of our Silicon Valley reporters, says he loves how the author, Joe Veix, describes “scooting his way out of crumbling modernity, over the Golden Gate Bridge and up through the Marin Headlands — to happiness, and the promise of a better life.”  Cook: Toss roasted broccoli with a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Watch: Jordan Peele breaks down the haunting scene in “Us” where members of a family meet their terrifying doubles. Listen: A year ago, Blueface was a little-known Los Angeles rapper. Now he has a viral single. On Popcast, our pop music podcast, our critic Jon Caramanica leads a discussion about how it happened. Go: Ivo van Hove’s staging of Leos Janacek’s song cycle “Diary of One Who Disappeared” has poetic, surprising images. It’s coming to the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Smarter Living: When you’re starting your career, the best opportunities for growth aren’t always at the most influential places. But aiming to be a bigger fish in a smaller pond may not give you enough room for development. Try finding an outfit that’s on the way up, where you can accumulate skills and social capital and expand along with it. Also, your knees are the most taxed joint of the human body. Here are some ways to keep them healthy. Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain. The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero. There once was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but in 1992, it was changed to an S for shuttle. The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988. Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it’s gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived (for now). The Times recently asked members of Generation Z, the group that was born in the years around 2000, to describe their identity. Here’s what they had to say. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the results of the special counsel’s investigation.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Month for “Madness” (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • From 1905 to 1913, The Times’s headquarters were in a tower at 42nd Street and Broadway in Manhattan, an intersection the city named “Times Square” to lend a distinctive name to the new subway station in the building’s basement.  An earlier version of this briefing misstated the name of part of the San Francisco area. It is the Marin Headlands, not Highlands. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5c98a1ad49f0eacbf105ede4", "date": "2019-03-25T09:37:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Boeing, Robert Mueller, Measles: Your Thursday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering a dispute between the attorney general and some of Robert Mueller’s investigators, the return of measles, and a report on the gruesome state of Alabama’s prisons.  Developing President Trump is likely to announce plans today for a future summit meeting with President Xi Jinping of China, in order to finalize a trade agreement. Some members of the special counsel’s team have said that Attorney General William Barr didn’t adequately portray their findings, which they said were more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr has indicated, according to government officials and others familiar with the matter. Mr. Barr has released a four-page summary of the nearly 400-page report, which he said found no conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s campaign and Russia in the 2016 election. Mr. Barr has said he will move to release the full report after scrubbing it of confidential information.  The officials and others interviewed declined to provide more detail, and it is unclear how widespread the frustration is among Robert Mueller’s team, which included 19 lawyers, about 40 F.B.I. agents and other personnel. What’s at stake: The dispute — the first evidence of tension between Mr. Barr and the special counsel’s office — could determine who shapes the public’s initial understanding of the investigation. The Daily: In today’s episode, two reporters discuss the revelations about the Mueller report.  Yesterday: The Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested that the I.R.S. provide six years of Mr. Trump’s personal and business tax returns. The crew of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed last month repeatedly followed the emergency procedures recommended by Boeing, the plane’s manufacturer, Ethiopia’s transportation minister said today in explaining investigators’ initial findings about the accident. In recommending that Boeing review the plane’s flight control system, the minister, Dagmawit Moges, said that the 737 Max 8 had experienced “repetitive, uncommanded aircraft nose-down conditions,” similar to those involving another Max 8 in a crash in Indonesia last year. What’s next: The findings are likely to heighten scrutiny of the 737 Max, Boeing’s top-selling jets. Since the crash in Ethiopia, airlines worldwide have grounded their 737 Max fleets. Public health officials thought they had the disease under control. The United Nations intensified vaccination efforts in 2001, and cases plunged nearly 80 percent worldwide from 2000 to 2016. But two years ago, the number of cases began rising, even in countries where it had been vanquished. The biggest factor in that increase, according to the World Health Organization, was poverty. About 95 percent of a population must be immune to stop measles from spreading, but the medical systems of many countries are too weak to vaccinate enough children every year.  Go deeper: Outbreaks in places such as Indonesia, Madagascar and Venezuela have revealed shortcomings in vaccination efforts and eroded confidence in what had been considered a public health achievement. The state has one of the highest incarceration rates in the U.S., and prisoners in its overcrowded and understaffed correctional system endure some of the highest rates of homicide and rape. A report issued by the Justice Department on Wednesday described “a high level of violence that is too common, cruel, of an unusual nature, and pervasive,” and said that the state was “deliberately indifferent” and “failed to correct known systemic deficiencies.”  State officials said the report addressed issues that Alabama was aware of and already working to fix.  Closer look: The Times received more than 2,000 photographs taken in an Alabama prison. Very few were suitable for publication, but they offered a rare glimpse of life there. New York has embraced the idea of congestion pricing, in which drivers will be charged to enter the busiest parts of Manhattan. If adopted more widely, it could change the way Americans think about infrastructure. The deeply embedded cultural idea of an open road obscures the fact that the government has heavily subsidized driving and hides the reality of who pays for it, our reporter writes. “The roads hold such a special position in our brain that we use logic around them that we would never use around everything else,” said a professor of urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. Local reaction: Various groups in New York are angling for exemptions before the policy goes into effect in 2021. Kashgar, the storied city of ancient trade routes, lies in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang. A crackdown is underway there on ethnic minority groups — Uighurs, Kazakhs, Tajiks — who outnumber the otherwise dominant Han Chinese. The government’s cameras are everywhere, and the point is to intimidate as much as it is to monitor. Three of our reporters explored. A “more mindful” Joe Biden: The former vice president said in a video released Wednesday that he would be more respectful of personal space, after four women said that how he had touched them had made them uncomfortable. Mr. Biden, who is expected to announce a presidential run, acknowledged that “social norms have begun to change” and “I get it.” Vulnerabilities at Mar-a-Lago: The arrest of a Chinese woman carrying a malware-laced device has exposed porous security at President Trump’s Florida resort. Interior Department nominee: David Bernhardt, President Trump’s choice to lead the department, continued to lobby for a client several months after he filed papers saying that he had ended such activities, a previously unreleased invoice shows. A Senate panel is scheduled to vote today on Mr. Bernhardt’s nomination. Punishing social media platforms: Australia passed sweeping legislation today that would, among other measures, result in jail time for executives of social media companies that fail to rapidly remove “abhorrent violent material.” Pope Francis names archbishop: Archbishop Wilton Gregory of Atlanta has been selected to lead the archdiocese in Washington, where Cardinal Donald Wuerl resigned in October after he was named in a grand jury report that accused church officials of covering up sexual abuse. Snapshot: Above, a study of a project by the artist Christo, who announced on Wednesday that he had received permission to wrap the Arc de Triomphe in Paris next year. It will be the first such project since Jeanne-Claude, his wife and artistic partner, died in 2009. 52 Places traveler: In his latest dispatch, our columnist visits the city he calls home: New York. Late-night comedy: After President Trump said his father, Fred Trump, was born in Germany (he was born in New York), Trevor Noah was confused: “Sometimes it feels like he has an unlimited lying plan with Verizon. Like, why lie about this?” What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying: “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.” Cook: Use a pressure cooker for quick chipotle chicken pozole. Watch: Here’s our pick of the best new titles on streaming services in the U.S. and on Netflix Canada this month. Listen: “Downhill Lullaby,” the first original song that Sky Ferreira has released since 2013, veers sharply from her first album, our critic writes. Read: The movie has been rocking on Netflix. Now Mötley Crüe’s “The Dirt” appears on our paperback nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. Smarter Living: Evidence shows that you’re better off going into a job with a realistic preview, warts and all, rather than a rosy picture of what it’s like. You might be a little less excited, but on average, you end up more productive and less likely to quit. Also, here’s how to find a sports bra that fits. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization turns 70 today. Having lunch in the cafeteria at NATO’s headquarters in Brussels is like attending a costume party, given the varied uniforms of the 29 members. A 30th nation, North Macedonia, is to join soon. The appeal is a mutual defense pact that has a rejuvenated purpose: to keep Russia contained and Germany defended. Tensions that had seemed to diminish with the fall of the Soviet Union are back, thanks to the 2008 Georgian war, the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea and warfare in eastern Ukraine, and Russian meddling in Greece, Montenegro and other countries. President Trump has disparaged NATO’s new headquarters as too expensive. But for this frequent visitor, it was a needed replacement for the ramshackle old structure. I once nearly lost my foot going through a rotten floor that was thrown together when Charles de Gaulle threw NATO out of France in 1966. (France came back to full membership 10 years ago.) Mom was right: Eat your veggies. Poor diets were linked to one in five deaths, according to a major study released Wednesday. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris and Inyoung Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Steven Erlanger, The Times’s chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the special counsel’s report.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Where Susan Collins is senator (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times stylebook renders NATO, like other acronyms — abbreviations pronounced as words — without periods.  Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc  Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk ", "id": "5ca5d0e749f0eacbf1f80d3d", "date": "2019-04-04T09:38:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Brexit, Afghanistan, Robert Mueller: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  Britain’s Parliament is set to hash out Brexit, the U.S. and the Taliban agree in principle to a peace framework, and France is debating the conduct of its police officers. Here’s the latest:  The British Parliament is expected to vote today on a number of amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan that could end up shaping how the country departs from the E.U. How it works: Various lawmakers, including those in opposition parties, have proposed more than a dozen changes to the wording of Mrs. May’s exit plan. Only the speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, can decide which will be voted on. The voting is for the most part not binding, but Mrs. May will be under political pressure to adopt popular measures. What are the amendments? There is a broad range. The most hyped could delay Britain’s departure from the bloc for a few months or even until the end of the year if there is no deal. That would blunt Mrs. May’s best cudgel: the clock.  What does it all mean? At the very least, the competing proposals should give Parliament a better idea of the kind of Brexit that would get wide support and perhaps even work. Tesco: Contending with competition from discount retailers and bracing for a possible Brexit shock, the largest grocer in Britain by market share said it was planning to cut thousands of jobs. Officials from both parties agreed in principle to the outlines of a preliminary peace deal, the chief U.S. negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, told our reporter in Kabul. The agreement is the biggest step yet toward ending the 17-year Afghan conflict. Terms: U.S. negotiators said the deal would include a Taliban guarantee that Afghan territory would not be used for terrorist activity. The withdrawal of American troops would be contingent on larger concessions from the Taliban, including a cease-fire and direct talks with the Afghan government — concessions the insurgent group has rejected in the past. Behind the scenes: President Trump is eager to leave Afghanistan, but Defense Department officials, convinced he does not grasp the complexities of the war, are warning that a full withdrawal could lead to a terrorist attack on the U.S. within two years. And Afghan officials are increasingly suspicious that Mr. Trump will make a deal with the Taliban behind their backs.  Dismay and rage are rising in France about the police response to months of protests by the Yellow Vest movement. Protesters’ grievous wounds have been making headlines for weeks, and critics say the government has become downright repressive. Developments: On Saturday, Jérôme Rodrigues, a well-known figure in the Yellow Vests, suffered an eye injury, apparently from a rubber projectile and a so-called dispersal grenade, as he was streaming live video on Facebook of a protest in Paris. “He will be handicapped for life,” his lawyer said.  Context: Yellow Vest protests have mixed peaceful demonstration with violent looting, fire-setting and attacks on the police. But in Western Europe, only France, Northern Ireland and Spain use projectile guns loaded with rubber balls that can seriously maim. President Emmanuel Macron’s government has ignored calls to stop using them, arguing that the police response is justified by the level of chaos.  In numbers: Since the revolt began in November, 11 people have died and 1,200 law enforcement officers have been injured. Among protesters there have been 1,900 injuries, 109 of them serious — including 18 who were blinded in one eye and four who lost a hand. An internal police group has opened 101 inquiries into use of force.  In May, Ireland voted decisively in a historic referendum to end one of the world’s most restrictive abortion bans and instead allow unrestricted abortion up to the 12th week of pregnancy. But women seeking abortions still face major roadblocks in the strongly Catholic country. Newly emboldened anti-abortion activists have been massing outside clinics and even creating fake ones, emulating a tactic used by American activists in which women are lured inside and harangued about their choice. Doctors and hospitals worried about the stigma have been slow signing up to provide abortion services. Looking ahead: Abortion rights groups fear they can already see the sprouts of a sustained movement to overturn legal abortion, including the establishment this month of an anti-abortion party. Russia investigation: In a highly unusual statement, Matthew Whitaker, the acting U.S. attorney general, said that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, was nearing the end of his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign and whether the Trump campaign cooperated with Moscow.  U.S. politics: President Trump cast doubt on the prospects for a bipartisan deal over his demand for a border wall by the Feb. 15 deadline and said he would use contentious emergency powers to fund the wall if an agreement could not be reached. Spain: The Prado Museum in Madrid is a cultural jewel, offering one of the finest collections of paintings in Europe. On its 200th anniversary, an exhibition running through March charts how the museum has navigated the convulsions of Spanish history.  Pope Francis: The pope tried to tamp down expectations for a global meeting at the Vatican next month on child sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church, saying it was mainly intended to educate bishops and other church leaders.  Huawei: The U.S. Justice Department unveiled sweeping charges against the Chinese telecom firm Huawei and its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, outlining a decade-long attempt by the company to steal trade secrets, obstruct a criminal investigation and evade economic sanctions on Iran. The U.S. also said it would seek to have Ms. Meng extradited from Canada, where she was detained last year at its request. Venezuela: The Trump administration imposed sanctions against Venezuela’s state-owned oil company, cutting off the main source of cash for the government of the embattled president, Nicolás Maduro.  Carlos Ghosn: American securities regulators are now also scrutinizing Nissan Motor, whose former chairman is accused by the Japanese authorities of financial misconduct. Mr. Ghosn, who denies all allegations, has been refused bail multiple times and could remain in a Tokyo jail for months, which is not unusual in a country where prosecutors wield enormous power. Paris: “DAU,” the Russian artist Ilya Khrzhanovsky’s much-hyped genre-hopping installation and magnum opus, is a thin and poorly managed spectacle, our critic writes.  A swastika in Thailand: A 19-year-old Thai singer wore a T-shirt with Nazi iconography during a performance, reviving concerns over the lack of awareness of the Holocaust in Asia. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: A classic Italian combination of sausage and peppers becomes an easy dinner with the addition of broccoli and pasta. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.) Five cheap(ish) things to help combat cabin fever.  How to get motivated if you don’t feel like running. As the British Parliament prepares to vote on proposed amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Plan B for Brexit, retailers are warning that a no-deal withdrawal from the E.U. could lead to higher prices and empty shelves. And some entrepreneurs are offering survival-themed products, like the Brexit Box. Costing nearly 300 pounds, it includes a water filter, fire-starting gel and 30 days of freeze-dried food. The fears recall Y2K, the so-called Millennium Bug, which threatened to wreak havoc when computer systems encountered Jan. 1, 2000, a date many had not been programmed to understand. The world didn’t end, of course. But a Times editorial from Dec. 30, 1999, drew a resonant lesson: “Even those of us who have not filled the bathtub with emergency water, withdrawn extra cash from the bank and stocked up on food will be entering the new millennium sobered by the awareness that unknown problems of our own making are an enduring part of existence.” Inyoung Kang, an editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to police use of rubber balls against demonstrators in Western European countries. It is authorized in at least three countries in the region: France, Northern Ireland and Spain. It is not the case that only France and Northern Ireland use such tools.", "id": "5c4fdd2b3a125f5075c06cec", "date": "2019-01-29T04:57:13+0000"}]