[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Senate Confirms Trump Nominee Who as Justice Official Fought the Affordable Care Act", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Chad A. Readler of Ohio as President Trump’s 33rd federal appeals court judge despite bipartisan criticism that as a Justice Department official in the Trump administration he had shirked his official responsibility to defend the Affordable Care Act when it was challenged in court. Mr. Readler’s nomination is just the latest to divide the Senate as Republicans renew their drive to fill federal district and circuit court vacancies while gearing up to force through a Senate rules change to accelerate the confirmation process for the remainder of Mr. Trump’s tenure. With the approval of Mr. Readler to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and two other appeals court nominees headed for a vote, Mr. Trump will have filled nearly 20 percent of the nation’s appellate court judgeships. That is a pace well ahead of his predecessors and one that puts his stamp firmly on the federal judiciary, with nearly two years remaining in his term. President Barack Obama did not see his 33rd circuit judge confirmed until early in his second term. The fight over Mr. Readler was intensified by his role in the legal struggle over the Affordable Care Act, which Democrats said he was obligated to defend as a top lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil division because it was existing law. Instead, he filed a brief in support of a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general aimed at gutting the Affordable Care Act, and argued that it, and its protections against denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, was unconstitutional. The Trump administration has sought to repeal the law, but the effort failed and the law remains in place. Mr. Readler’s nomination was approved on a 52-to-47 vote with all Democrats and one Republican voting no. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the sole Republican to speak out against Mr. Readler, cited his health care argument in opposing him. “Rather than defend the law and its protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions — such as asthma, arthritis, cancer, diabetes and heart disease — Mr. Readler’s brief in Texas v. United States argued that they should be invalidated,” she said. Democrats seized on that issue, saying that while Senate Republicans proclaimed that they supported coverage for those with existing conditions, they were backing an architect of the Trump administration’s attempt to dismantle the law. “Tens of millions of Americans who need this protection are watching,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “A vote for Readler is very simply a vote for the lawsuit to strike down our health care law.” Mr. Schumer noted that Mr. Readler was nominated for the court seat the day after his health care brief was filed. “Apparently in the Trump administration depriving people of protections for pre-existing conditions — it is something to be rewarded and rewarded no less with a lifetime appointment,” he said. One after the other, Democrats took to the floor to criticize the nomination. The depth of their opposition — and eagerness to highlight Mr. Readler’s health care actions — was demonstrated by unusually strong opposition from Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who has been nearly alone in his willingness to regularly support Trump nominees, including the Supreme Court justices Brett M. Kavanaugh and Neil M. Gorsuch. “This is something I don’t do often,” Mr. Manchin said. “I don’t take it lightly.” But Mr. Readler, he said, had “single-handedly tried to rip insurance away from West Virginians and Americans” when his Justice Department responsibility was just the opposite. “This gentleman has basically shown it is not about the law; it is not about the Constitution; it is about his politics and himself and not a man who should be sitting on a higher court,” Mr. Manchin said. Republicans said little in support of Mr. Readler, nor did any of them back his position in the health care case. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has made confirming judicial nominees a top priority, said that Mr. Readler, 46, had “built a longstanding reputation in private practice as a consummate legal professional.” He was the second appellate judge to be confirmed this week after a Senate vote on Tuesday on the nomination of Allison Rushing, 36, a former clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas, to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Republicans dismissed concerns about her lack of experience, and Ms. Rushing will be the youngest federal judge in the nation. After Mr. Readler’s confirmation vote, Mr. McConnell immediately moved to force a final vote on another nominee, Eric E. Murphy, 40, the state solicitor for Ohio, to fill another vacancy on the Sixth Circuit. Democrats and liberal activists oppose him, saying he fought against the legalization of same-sex marriage and supported efforts to make it harder to vote. The fate of another high-profile nominee — Neomi Rao for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit — remains uncertain, though Republican objections that threatened her confirmation have quieted. Republicans have the power to confirm Mr. Trump’s judicial nominees with a simple majority because of a successful attempt by a Democratic-led Senate in 2013 to overturn a longstanding rule requiring 60 votes to confirm a judge. But the process can still be time-consuming. Mr. McConnell has grown increasingly impatient and frustrated with Democrats for stretching out the time to consider nominees. Republicans are now threatening to use their majority to push through a change that would cut debate time on most nominees to two hours from 30 hours after an initial procedural vote. The change would not apply to appeals court judges like Mr. Readler, but it would allow the Senate to clear a backlog of lower-level district court nominees much faster. Mr. McConnell said again Tuesday that he would like to reach an agreement on the change with Democrats but that appears highly unlikely. “We’re still hoping to have bipartisan support to go forward with the standing order, which would require 60 votes,” Mr. McConnell said. “In the absence of that, it is still my desire to try to achieve that, and that’s an issue we’ll have, a discussion we’ll have among Republicans.” Without a compromise, Republican senators said they expected to force the rules showdown by the end of the month. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.", "id": "5c80635049f0eacbf105bb9f", "date": "2019-03-07T00:16:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Democrats Pivot to Protecting Affordable Care Act", "full_text": " Good Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • A new fight over the Affordable Care Act broke out on Tuesday, as Democrats denounced the Trump administration for asking a federal appeals court to invalidate it. The surprise decision, which could leave 21 million people without health insurance if the court agrees, gave Democrats a chance to move past impeachment and discuss kitchen-table issues like health care. • The most enduring legacy of Robert S. Mueller’s investigation may be his decision not to take action on President Trump’s norm-shattering interventions in the law enforcement system. Future presidents may feel entitled to take similar actions. • As the Trump administration celebrates Mr. Mueller’s finding that the president did not conspire with Russia, a darker theme is emerging: a message that Mr. Trump’s perceived enemies will pay. • Scientists at the Interior Department spent years examining the threat that pesticides present to hundreds of endangered species. That work was pushed aside after David Bernhardt, now President Trump’s nominee to lead the department, intervened. • Senator Kamala Harris of California announced her campaign’s first policy rollout: a plan to heavily invest federal money in teacher pay. • A donor database assembled by Ms. Harris has worked powerfully for her fellow Democrats. She is now using it for her own presidential run, which could put her in the best position to challenge Beto O’Rourke and Bernie Sanders on small-dollar donations. • The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal, after hours of discussion in which Republicans painted its Democratic supporters as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists. • The Air Force of three decades ago was a challenging place for women. Sexual harassment, and worse, was rampant. So when a male superior officer raped Martha McSally, a young servicewoman who is now a senator, it wasn’t surprising that she did not report it. • House Democrats responded bluntly to a letter from Representative Rashida Tlaib, the freshman firebrand, seeking an inquiry into impeaching President Trump. “We’re not focused on impeachment,” said one. • Nearly a year after imposing stiff tariffs on foreign metals, the United States is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. Both have said no. • Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Tuesday that he regretted his role in the 1991 hearings over Anita Hill’s sexual harassment allegations against Clarence Thomas, who became a Supreme Court justice. That episode could be a vulnerability if Mr. Biden runs for president. • A divided Supreme Court returned to the subject of partisan gerrymandering, considering whether drawing election maps to help the party in power ever violates the Constitution. (Here’s an explainer, if you’re confused about what gerrymandering is.) • Long before the grounding of the 737 Max, the Federal Aviation Administration faced scrutiny over its practice of letting manufacturers help certify their own planes. F.A.A. employees viewed their management as “having too close a relationship with Boeing officials,” a government inquiry found years ago. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9af64449f0eacbf105f3ac", "date": "2019-03-27T04:02:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democrats Pivot Hard to Health Care After Trump Moves to Strike Down Affordable Care Act", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center. The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president. Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.” The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated. “The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.” The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional. Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs. A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated. The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position. “Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.” Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position. “I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.” But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media. The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room. After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.” That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government. On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination. “The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.” At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans. At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.” Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.” In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions. The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells. Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions. “The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.” But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system. “We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.” In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof. The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach. The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing. It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.” “We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat. Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c9a4d2649f0eacbf105f1eb", "date": "2019-03-26T16:01:16+0000"}]