[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Collusion Was a Seductive Delusion", "full_text": " It's our own fault we elected Trump. Opinion Columnist On a bitter night nearly two-and-a-half squandered years ago, Donald Trump was duly elected the 45th president of the United States of America. His victory was a political scandal, a democratic emergency and a moral shame — but as Robert Mueller seems to have concluded after a definitive investigation, Mr. Trump’s win was not the illegitimate product of a treasonous conspiracy. There was no collusion. The president was not a Manchurian candidate. And we can’t lay the blame for this whole thing on Vladimir Putin. Indeed, the truest horror in Mr. Mueller’s finding is that we did not need Mr. Putin to be pulling the strings. We know now that under our shambolic democracy, a man as unfit as Mr. Trump really can legitimately acquire all the terrifying powers of the presidency without being controlled by a foreign puppet master. [Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.] The second true horror concerns a historically wasted opportunity. In the years we’ve spent chasing the fantastical ghosts of collusion, we have all but ignored the structural weaknesses plaguing every corner of the American establishment, from its political parties to its news media to its tilted economic landscape and, most important, the unfair machinery of its democracy. Mr. Mueller's indictments show that Russian agents interfered with the 2016 election by sowing discord on social media and hacking and disseminating Democrats' emails. Yet it now seems wiser to point to our intrinsically American shortcomings, more than Russian interference, for Mr. Trump’s victory. And in rushing to blame Russian collusion, we have wasted time and political opportunity that we might better have spent reckoning with how to prevent a Trump-like catastrophe from happening again. I’m spelling all this out starkly, because in the spinning to come, it will be all too easy to lose yourself in misdirection. If you are a liberal, you might be especially tempted to give in to the aggrieved and embarrassed #resistance-tweeting punditocracy now throwing up endless reasons for downplaying Mr. Mueller’s finding: We still haven’t seen the whole report! The attorney general is a toady! Don’t forget about all those other investigations of all those other crimes! These are all important points. But don’t overlook the headline finding. Like the Trump victory itself, Mr. Mueller’s no-collusion conclusion should leave a mark. It lands like a rotten egg on a political and media establishment that had gone all-in on its own self-serving — and wrong — theory of the case. Before we embark on yet more investigations, it is worth examining, now, why the collusion fantasy proved so irresistible to so many of us — and what we all might have done with our time instead. Here’s my theory: Collusion was a seductive and convenient delusion. For many Americans, the simple truth that Mr. Trump really had won was too terrible to bear. The ease with which a racist, misogynist, serial con man had slipped past every gatekeeper in American life suggested something deeply sick at the core of our society. In particular, Mr. Trump’s win pointed to tectonic failures within the mainstream news media, whose leading brands had fanned the showman’s rise with copious television coverage; indulged his every gimmick with yet more attention; and elevated his opponent’s trifling email-management kerfuffle into a scandal of world-historic import. Mr. Trump’s win also pointed to the failure of our political parties. After years of playing footsie with extremists, the Republicans created an environment in which a racist demagogue could swallow them whole. Democrats, meanwhile, dismissed the economic and social unease roiling their ranks and nominated a deeply unpopular candidate who lacked any novel vision for American life. And then she forgot to campaign in Michigan. There were other minor factors in this American tragedy: Jim Comey’s grandstanding; the tech giants’ inability to appreciate or curb the chaotic powers of their new communications platforms; our collective innumeracy regarding polling; and a naïve failure to appreciate the profound fragility of our national enterprise. Finally there was the plainer constitutional failure. You didn’t need a two-year federal investigation to determine the single most important lesson of the 2016 race: America does not treat all its voters, and all of its votes, equally. Across the country, the voices of thousands and possibly millions of people were suppressed. Millions more votes went essentially uncounted, because the perversities of the Electoral College elevate a few thousand votes in the Midwest over a few million in California. It’s true that we have begun, belatedly, to shine a spotlight on many of these deep-rooted problems. But the Mueller investigation sucked up all the political energy. For many in the political and media establishment, the possibility of collusion offered moral expiation for collective complicity. Rather than begin the hard work of addressing what had actually gone wrong, many of us were swept up in social-media-fueled feedback loops looking for an instant fix: The orgiastic pee tape would turn up and clear up the whole funny misunderstanding. From here, the story of 2016 looks rather straightforward: Mr. Trump was the corrupt, misbegotten choice of a citizenry mired in partisan mistrust, seething with racial grievance, informed by a beleaguered and fracturing news media, and laboring under an economic and political system that had long ceased functioning for all but the wealthiest of its citizens. His victory pointed to a systemic failure. In the end the only golden shower that mattered was the one soaking American democracy — but it’s been raining so long and so hard that we’re just about content to ignore the storm. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com. Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook ", "id": "5c9929ff49f0eacbf105ef47", "date": "2019-03-25T19:19:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "No Criminal Collusion. Lots of Corruption.", "full_text": " Don’t let Trump pretend he has been vindicated. Opinion Columnist The Mueller investigation is over, and the only people close to Donald Trump who have been criminally charged are his former campaign chairman, former deputy campaign chairman, former personal lawyer, former national security adviser, former campaign foreign policy adviser and Roger Stone, the president’s longtime friend and strategist. The report written by the special counsel Robert Mueller, according to a quotation in a brief summary issued by Attorney General William Barr, says that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Naturally, the president and his allies are claiming, as one of Trump’s tweets said, “Complete and Total EXONERATION.” I won’t pretend that the weekend’s news was not very good for Trump and dispiriting for those of us who despise him. Whatever else is in the Mueller report, it says, according to Barr, that the investigation “did not establish” that anyone from the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its 2016 election interference. The overtures we all know about — the Trump Tower meeting, Trump’s public call for Russia to obtain Hillary Clinton’s emails, which Russian hackers tried to do that very day — were not part of a crime, or at least not part of a crime that the special counsel could prove. There will be no deus ex Mueller bringing this wretched presidency to an early end. On the contrary, Trump is emboldened, and his foes momentarily defensive. Until the Mueller report is publicly released, however, it’s impossible to tell how much of Trump’s victory is substantive and how much is spin. The report, evidently, leaves open the question of whether Trump obstructed justice. In his letter to Congress about the report, Barr said that he and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, made the determination that no obstruction of justice occurred. Of course, last year Barr wrote a memo calling Mueller’s obstruction investigation “grossly irresponsible” and “fatally misconceived,” which is surely why Trump appointed him in the first place. There is no reason for anyone to take his finding seriously. [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] Even some of the underlying questions about Trump’s relationship with Russia remain open. Here, those of us who’d hoped for more from Mueller should be mindful of the temptation to grasp at straws. On Friday, when the news broke that Mueller wasn’t recommending any more indictments, many of us immediately asked whether there were sealed indictments. There weren’t. As we parse Barr’s letter, we should be aware of the human tendency toward motivated reasoning. But we should be equally aware of the media tendency to capitulate in the face of Trumpian triumphalism. (Recall the pressure to give Trump credit after his first meeting with Kim Jong-un, despite the emptiness of the resulting agreement.) So we shouldn’t overlook the fact that when it comes to Trump’s relationship with Russia, Barr’s letter speaks only to very narrow questions about Trump campaign involvement in Russian information warfare operations in 2016. Barr wrote that no Trump associate conspired or “knowingly” coordinated with the Internet Research Agency, the Russian troll farm that spread pro-Trump and anti-Clinton propaganda. Did any do so unknowingly? Barr also wrote that the special counsel didn’t find that Trump associates “conspired or coordinated with the Russian government” in hacking into the Democratic National Committee’s computers, but few thought the campaign had a role in the actual digital break-in. Still, assuming Barr’s summary is accurate, it means that while Trump was installed with Russia’s help, neither he nor his campaign assisted Russia in committing the crimes that aided his ascent. (If he cheated his way to victory, it was through more pedestrian alleged violations of campaign finance law.) We’re still in the dark, however, about all the steps Trump took to thwart the investigation and about the extent of his vulnerability to compromise. On Saturday, the left-wing writer Matt Taibbi published a widely shared essay calling Russiagate “this generation’s W.M.D.,” a national security hoax, abetted by a credulous media, akin to the one that justified the Iraq War. “The biggest thing this affair has uncovered so far is Donald Trump paying off a porn star,” he wrote. That’s silly. The biggest thing this affair has uncovered is that throughout much of the presidential campaign, Trump was seeking to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. The deal had the potential to make hundreds of millions of dollars for the Trump Organization, and Trump’s lawyer solicited the Russian government’s help to get it done. After the election, Trump lied about the deal to the American people. Vladimir Putin knew the truth, giving him leverage over Trump. Is that the only leverage he had? It now falls to Congress to find out, and it’s important that Democrats not allow themselves to be intimidated by right-wing chest-beating, particularly if Republicans try to quash the report’s release. Speaking to Fox News on Sunday, Representative Devin Nunes, a devoted Trump lackey, called for the report to be burned. Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s lawyers, has said he would “fight very aggressively” to stop the president’s written answers to Mueller from being made public. Republicans may be gloating, but it’s Democrats who should be on the offensive. If Trump thinks he has been vindicated, then what is he hiding? The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.  Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn ", "id": "5c992bdf49f0eacbf105ef4b", "date": "2019-03-25T19:27:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’", "full_text": " A Trump-friendly attorney general’s letter doesn’t do justice to the special counsel’s investigation. Release his whole report. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. On its face, the letter that Attorney General William Barr sent to Congress on Sunday afternoon, summarizing the key findings of the special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, is good news, not just for President Trump. According to Mr. Barr’s four-page summary, Mr. Mueller and his team were unable to establish that anyone connected to the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government when it interfered to help Mr. Trump in the 2016 presidential campaign. This should provide some relief to all Americans who have harbored fears that a presidential candidate was conspiring with Vladimir Putin to subvert American democracy. Mr. Mueller — who never once responded to the shameless stream of insults Mr. Trump has hurled at him over the last two years — is as careful and thorough an investigator as there is. His investigation lasted almost two years, issued more than 2,800 subpoenas and roughly 500 search warrants and heard from a similar number of witnesses. If he couldn’t find any links, it’s doubtful anyone could. What this outcome is not, however, is a “Complete and Total EXONERATION,” as Mr. Trump unsurprisingly spun it. Mr. Mueller explicitly declined to exonerate the president on the matter of obstruction of justice — a crime that constituted one of the articles of impeachment for both Presidents Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton. After examining Mr. Trump’s actions and weighing “difficult issues” of law and fact, Mr. Mueller punted. “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” the report states. Mr. Barr wasn’t as cautious. Less than 48 hours after receiving Mr. Mueller’s report, the attorney general briskly decided that Mr. Trump had not obstructed justice. Why not? Because there was no underlying crime to obstruct, Mr. Barr said, and anyway, most of Mr. Trump’s behavior took place in full public view, had no connection to any legal proceeding, and wasn’t “done with corrupt intent.” How did Mr. Barr make these determinations so quickly? On what evidence in the report did he base it? Recall that Mr. Barr got his current job only after Mr. Trump shoved out his predecessor, Jeff Sessions, for not showing him enough personal loyalty and shutting down the Russia investigation at the start. Among the reasons Mr. Barr may have appealed to the president was an unsolicited memo he sent last year to the Justice Department, taking the position that Mr. Mueller should not be allowed to question Mr. Trump about obstructing justice, and that the president could not be guilty of obstruction unless there were an underlying crime to obstruct. In other words, Mr. Barr did exactly as Mr. Trump hoped he would. But there’s a reason obstructing justice is a crime on its own. The justice system doesn’t work when people lie to authorities, no matter why they do so.  Mr. Barr’s curious views on obstruction are just one reason that Mr. Mueller’s full report must be made available, immediately, to both Congress and the American people. Also, while Mr. Mueller may not have found sufficient evidence of a criminal conspiracy, let’s not lose sight of what we already know, both from his investigation and from news reports over the past two years. We know that the Russian government interfered repeatedly in the 2016 presidential election, by hacking into computer servers of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. We know that it did this with the goals of dividing Americans and helping Donald Trump win the presidency. We know that when top members of the Trump campaign learned about this interference, they didn’t just fail to report it to the F.B.I. They welcomed it. They encouraged it. They made jokes about it. On the same day that Mr. Trump publicly urged the Russians to hack into Hillary Clinton’s emails, they began to do just that. And we know that when questioned by federal authorities, many of Mr. Trump’s top associates lied, sometimes repeatedly, about their communications with Russians. None of this is in dispute. That Mr. Mueller couldn’t find sufficient evidence that Mr. Trump or anyone involved in his campaign had coordinated directly with the Russians may be explained by the fact that they didn’t need to. They were already getting that help. We also know that what began as a counterintelligence investigation quickly turned into a criminal investigation, in large part because Mr. Trump surrounded himself with criminals. To date, his campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; his deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; his national security adviser, Michael Flynn; his campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and his personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, have all pleaded guilty or been convicted of federal crimes. In January, Mr. Mueller charged Roger Stone, Mr. Trump’s longtime aide, with multiple counts of witness tampering, obstructing justice, and making false statements. Imagine if we’d learned all of this just Sunday, in one fell swoop, rather than in a trickle of indictments and prosecutions over the last 18 months.  Americans are, of course, continuing to learn more unsettling truths from the dozen or so other investigations that are continuing, such as the one in New York that has already landed Mr. Cohen a three-year prison sentence for campaign-finance violations that prosecutors said Mr. Trump was also involved in, from the White House. One might expect Mr. Trump to feel happiness at Sunday’s news, but for him, that emotion seems to transform into a desire for vengeance. It’s no surprise that he and his allies are once again floating the idea of prosecuting Mrs. Clinton. Remember her? She was the candidate who, during a presidential debate all the way back in 2016, said: “It’s pretty clear you won’t admit that the Russians have engaged in cyberattacks against the United States of America, that you encouraged espionage against our people, that you are willing to spout the Putin line, sign up for his wish list, break up NATO, do whatever he wants to do and that you continue to get help from him because he has a very clear favorite in this race.” Mr. Putin did have a clear favorite. He interfered on his behalf, and his favorite was elected president. Trump campaign officials knew about this and were more than happy for the help. Then they lied about receiving that help. This isn’t so complicated. And while Mr. Mueller may not be able to do anything about it, Congress, and the American people, certainly can. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9810ac49f0eacbf105ecf1", "date": "2019-03-24T23:18:41+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Putin Says Mueller's Probe Validates Russia on No Collusion", "full_text": " ST. PETERSBURG, Russia — Russian President Vladimir Putin says special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation report validated Moscow's repeated denials of collusion with U.S. between President Donald Trump's campaign. Speaking at an Arctic forum in St. Petersburg on Tuesday, Putin said claims of collusion by Democrats reflect their failure to accept the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. Putin says he thinks their attacks on Trump are a disrespect to voters and reflect a crisis of the U.S. political system. The Russian leader said he hopes partisan fighting in Washington eases so the U.S. and Russia can focus on issues of mutual interest, such as nuclear arms control, fighting terrorism and climate change. Asked if Russia would support Trump's re-election in 2020, Putin said only that Moscow would \"respect the choice of the American people.\"", "id": "5caf828f49f0eacbf1f82ead", "date": "2019-04-11T18:06:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Russian Vodka. A ‘No Collusion Day’ Rally. Trump Fans Celebrate the Mueller Report.", "full_text": " The celebrations began almost immediately. Over the weekend in midtown Manhattan, Lisa Joseph helped organize a “No Collusion Day” rally. In Houston, Anson Klaber took a bottle of Russian vodka and poultry to a dinner party. He wanted his friends to eat crow, but cooked chicken would have to do. “I get one day where I can gloat about it, and you all get upset,” Mr. Klaber, 43, an apartment building manager, said of his largely liberal circle of friends, who were not amused. Instead, they were crestfallen that a special counsel investigation had, according to the Justice Department, found no coordination between President Trump’s campaign and Russia’s election meddling. For almost two years, Mr. Trump’s fiercest supporters echoed his attacks against the inquiry, led by former F.B.I. director Robert S. Mueller III, as a “witch hunt” that should be shut down. “No collusion” became their rallying cry, and they sided with congressional Republicans whose efforts to discredit Mr. Mueller had divided Republican lawmakers. Some conservatives said they decided months or years ago that there could have been no collaboration between the Trump campaign and Moscow. Over the weekend, they rejoiced. “It’s just sad it had to happen,” said Ms. Joseph, 47, a stay-at-home mother who helped organize the Manhattan rally and also helped plan a 2017 “March Against Sharia” in Syracuse. “If the Democrats don’t stop investigating him, they are going to shoot themselves in the foot. If they keep going, they’re going to be defeated.” Since Mr. Mueller was appointed in 2017, conservative Americans have run advertisements against the special counsel. Others signed petitions demanding his firing. But by the time the initial rush of relief and vindication faded after Attorney General William P. Barr announced a summary of the special counsel’s findings on Sunday, Mr. Mueller was an afterthought to many of Mr. Trump’s fans. Instead, they shifted their anger to Democratic politicians, career government officials and the news media they said they blame for trying to drag down the president. “The problem was not the special counsel,” the Rev. Robert Jeffress, the senior pastor of First Baptist Dallas and one of Mr. Trump’s most fervent evangelical supporters, said on Tuesday. “The problem was the provision that allowed the special counsel unlimited time and money and power to make an investigation that did not have a solid foundation behind it.” He said he expected Mr. Trump to “talk quite a bit about this.” “I think, frankly, the Democrats have handed him a weapon for 2020,” Mr. Jeffress said. “I think the unfairness of this investigation, the attempt to overturn the 2016 election is going to energize the president’s base like no one can possibly imagine.” Indeed, many conservatives said Mr. Mueller’s report only helped to confirm their disdain for the news media (“fake news,” they said) and for the multiple, ongoing investigations of the president and his businesses, which they have brushed aside as more hoaxes. Still, it was not like Mr. Trump’s faithful suddenly approved of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, which has led to a half-dozen indictments or convictions of former Trump aides. In interviews from suburban Atlanta to Houston to Orange County, Calif., conservative supporters said they were still furious — and felt more besieged than ever. Last year, Bruce Desautels introduced a resolution during the Nebraska state Republican convention to condemn the Mueller investigation as an “unjust attack” on the Trump administration, and he complained that Mr. Mueller had “chosen to obstinately pursue a face-saving charge of ‘obstructing justice’ where no criminality exists.” On Tuesday, he was still spitting mad. “If you’re asking whether I exonerate Mueller, whether I think he’s a fine guy, I don’t,” Mr. Desautels, 58, said. “This was a witch hunt, and anyone could see it from the beginning.” To Mr. Desautels, Mr. Mueller seemed to be just another creature of Washington, an establishment-backing Republican unnerved by Mr. Trump’s approach to the capital. “A decent guy, a real prosecutor who is playing fair, would have looked at this thing and said, ‘I’m not touching this thing, this is obviously politically motivated,’” he said. “This is a black mark on the American judicial system.” Some Trump supporters drew parallels to the 2016 election, when they said their support for Mr. Trump was discounted and derided by Democrats and mainstream media predictions up until the moment he won. In June 2017, the Great America Alliance, an advocacy group that supports Mr. Trump’s agenda, posted a campaign-style web video attacking the Mueller inquiry as a “rigged game” out to get the president. The group’s chairman, Eric Beach, said it is planning new videos, which will draw from the Justice Department’s publicly available summary of the Mueller report. Dan Dieterle, who runs a barbecue restaurant in suburban Atlanta, faulted Mr. Mueller for pursuing an expensive and time-consuming inquiry that, at least according to the attorney general, showed no criminal conduct by Mr. Trump. “What scares the bejesus out of me is that this is the United States of America, and for a group of people to do what they’ve done to this man, who was duly elected, and people in his wake, it scares the heck out of me,” said Mr. Dieterle, who used to have a cutout of Mr. Trump at another restaurant he ran in north Georgia. “There was absolutely no reason to go after the man. They went after him because they didn’t like him.” Mr. Dieterle said “the whole thing was a farce from the beginning” and that he had not had much faith in Mr. Mueller. “Mueller didn’t exonerate him,” he said. “Trump exonerated himself.”", "id": "5c9ac20049f0eacbf105f35d", "date": "2019-03-27T00:19:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Falsely Claims That Manafort Judge Declared There Was ‘No Collusion’ With Russia", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday seized on a portion of a federal judge’s remarks during the sentencing of his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, in a financial crimes case to again criticize the Russia investigation and falsely declare a finding of “no collusion.” Both the Judge and the lawyer in the Paul Manafort case stated loudly and for the world to hear that there was NO COLLUSION with Russia. But the Witch Hunt Hoax continues as you now add these statements to House & Senate Intelligence & Senator Burr. So bad for our Country! Speaking to reporters before he left for Alabama to inspect tornado damage, Mr. Trump said that the sentencing judge, T.S. Ellis III of the United States District Court in Alexandria, Va., had said “there was no collusion with Russia.” Mr. Trump added that he was “very honored” Judge Ellis made that statement. Mr. Trump, however, twisted Judge Ellis’s words. What Judge Ellis actually said Thursday was that Mr. Manafort was “not before this court for anything having to do with collusion with the Russian government to influence this election.” There was “no collusion” because Mr. Manafort was not charged with or convicted of any crimes of collusion, a word that has no legal definition but has become a term of art for the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. Mr. Manafort on Thursday received a sentence of nearly four years  for financial crimes for which sentencing guidelines recommend a prison term of 19 to 24 years. He was convicted in August of five counts of tax fraud, two counts of bank fraud and one count of failure to disclose a foreign bank account. Mr. Manafort’s attorneys used the same false talking point as the president on Thursday, saying in a brief statement after the hearing, “There is absolutely no evidence that Paul Manafort was involved in any collusion with any government official or Russia.” In his tweet, Mr. Trump also falsely stated that Judge Ellis’s ruling is consistent with statements from the House and Senate Intelligence Committees that have been conducting separate investigations into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. Last year, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee issued a 250-page report detailing their findings that there was no evidence that the Trump campaign helped Russia interfere in the election. With the Democrats in control of the House, the Intelligence Committee is broadening the investigation to include Russian interference as well as Mr. Trump’s finances. Mr. Trump singled out Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who said in February that the panel had not seen any evidence “that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia.” The committee’s investigation is ongoing.  ", "id": "5c82900649f0eacbf105c133", "date": "2019-03-08T15:52:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Colbert Takes Collusion Off ‘List of Reasons Trump Is Unfit to Be President’", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. In his first new episode of “The Late Show” since Robert Mueller delivered his report to Attorney General Robert Barr, Stephen Colbert did his best to balance frustration with humility. “Fair is fair,” he said. “Barr says Mueller says there was no collusion between Trump and Russia, so we have to cross collusion off the list of reasons Trump is unfit to be president.” Then Colbert got literal. “Fellas, bring out the board,” he cried, and out came a whiteboard filled with a list of controversial things Trump has said or done. Reading through items like “put kids in cages,” “gave security clearance to his son-in-law,” “repeatedly humped flag” and “all that birther stuff,” Colbert eventually found his way to “colluded with Russia,” and erased it. A list with dozens of other items remained. Then he flipped the board over, revealing another list on the opposite side. “I really want to be fair to him. I should also cross off ‘Mueller’ from the list of Trump investigations,” Colbert said, now revealing a list of the 17 legal investigations into Trump by New York’s attorney general, various House committees and other government bodies. Colbert erased the Mueller investigation from this list. “Sir, it’s gone,” he announced to Trump. “That must be 1/17th of a weight off your shoulders.” The report, which has not been released but was summarized in a four-page document by the attorney general, found no evidence that President Trump colluded directly with Russia during the presidential campaign. But on the question of whether Trump obstructed justice, Mueller came to no conclusion, stating, “While this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” Trump seemed not to have read the second part of that sentence. Speaking to reporters on Sunday about the report, he declared: “It was a complete and total exoneration.” Colbert couldn’t countenance that. “Trump does not understand the simplest of concepts! ‘You know, I just tried some I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter. It’s total and complete butter. I tell ya, I can’t believe how much it is butter!’” — STEPHEN COLBERT On “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” a running gag came to a head on Monday with Kimmel showing a video of Washington State’s attorney general and the dean of Gonzaga University’s law school pledging that Gonzaga is, indeed, a real school. All last week, as March Madness got underway, Jimmy Kimmel kept insisting — in what felt increasingly like a parody of fringe-radio conspiracy theorists — that he thinks Gonzaga is a fake university made up to win basketball tournaments. Kimmel refused to back down on Monday, even with the video from the dean, and a little later on, he cut to a conversation with another supposed member of Gonzaga’s administration: Chancellor Gonzo Aga (played by Fred Willard). This time, the administrator admitted he was making it all up. As the set fell down around him, he admitted that he was actually broadcasting from the basement of a Fuddrucker’s. “Deep down, didn’t we know Trump probably didn’t collude with Russia because he could never pull that off? And even if he did collude, it probably would have been by accident. Putin wanted him in there and did what he had to do. Basically, Trump got in the White House the same way Lori Loughlin got her kid into USC.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “It really is astonishing: The day after Trump skates on collusion, Michael Avenatti is arrested. I mean, all they have to do now is replace the bald eagle with a fried chicken and this’ll be the best week of the president’s life.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to Avenatti’s arrest on extortion charges “Wow, wow. He sent out a tweet and then 14 minutes later, they arrested him. It sounds like everyone’s fantasy of what should have happened to Donald Trump. It’s also an odd reminder to turn off your location whenever you tweet.” — TREVOR NOAH, describing Avenatti’s arrest Jimmy Fallon taped the entirety of his show on a cellphone, and it allowed him to travel throughout New York City. One stop he made was in the middle of the Brooklyn Bridge, where he sang a bit of doo-wop with members of the Roots. Noah on the Mueller report’s findings: “A lot of us were expecting something different. It’s a little bit like coming down the stairs on Christmas morning — you were hoping for a brand-new BMX but instead you find Santa’s dead body.” Conan O’Brien will cross enemy lines again to visit Stephen Colbert on “The Late Show” on Tuesday for the second time in two months. One of this year’s most haunting vocal performances isn’t by a singer. It’s by Lupita Nyong’o in “Us.” Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5c99e8ea49f0eacbf105f0c3", "date": "2019-03-26T08:53:36+0000"}]