[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders, Socialism’s Reagan?", "full_text": " If Trump is a Carter figure, there’s an obvious candidate to play the Gipper. Opinion Columnist From the beginning the presidency of Donald Trump has inspired analogies to the years of Jimmy Carter. Though personally the two men are ever so slightly different, they seem to occupy a similar space in the arc of political history — both outsiders who seized control of a divided, exhausted, yet still powerful political party, both men who tried to push their coalitions into a new ideological formation, both presidents who commanded legislative majorities but accomplished next to nothing with them. The term that seems to fit them both is “disjunctive,” from the categorizations of the Yale political scientist Stephen Skowronek. As Carter straddled the old New Deal-Great Society liberalism and the age of Reaganism and neoliberalism to come, so Trump’s presidency is at once the seeming last gasp for the Reagan coalition and a possible doorway into a future where socialism and right-wing populism contend for mastery instead. But if Trump is a Carter figure, trying and probably failing to build a new conservative majority inside the decaying institutions of the old one, then who is ready to play Reagan — the ideologically ambitious rival who wins the presidency and actually ushers in realignment? The correct answer might be nobody, because history doesn’t actually repeat or mirror or rhyme that simply, and because the decadence of American institutions threatens to make every president effectively disjunctive, keeping real realignment forever out of reach. But if you’re eagerly looking for the repetition or the rhyme, the 2020 primary campaign supplies an obvious figure: The Reagan to Trump’s Carter, the left-wing answer to the first movement-conservative president, can be only Bernard Sanders. If you doubt me, consider the parallels. Like Reagan following his attempt to primary Gerald Ford in 1976, Sanders is coming off a near-miss insurgent campaign against an embodiment of the party establishment, who then went to an excruciatingly narrow general election defeat. Like Reagan, Sanders is widely judged too old to be elected president; he is older than the Gipper, but just as Reagan’s age in 1980, 69, roughly matched American life expectancy at the time, so does Sanders’s age of 77 match life expectancy today. Like Reagan, Sanders is widely considered too extreme to be nominated, and certainly too extreme to win: Some Democrats fear that his nomination would give oxygen to a third-party centrist (with Howard Schultz ready for that role) as Reagan’s prompted John Anderson to run as a liberal Republican; some Republicans hope that a Sanders-led ticket would help the unpopular incumbent sneak to re-election. And like Reagan, Sanders comes by his supposed extremism honestly, having been ideologically left-wing for his entire public life, preaching socialism in the midst of the Reagan and Clinton eras just as Reagan made himself a spokesman for the Goldwaterite right in 1964, at its moment of epic political defeat. Of course the analogy is imperfect — don’t come at me with Bernie never governed a major state and Reagan was a New Deal Democrat and had a whole celebrity career before he went into politics, I’m well aware. But it’s an interesting echo, at the very least. And the parallels between the arguments used to dismiss Sanders and the Reagan-can’t-win assumptions of late-1970s pundits have kept me moderately bullish on the Vermont socialist’s 2020 chances. With Sanders officially in the race, the reasons for bullishness have grown. Whether he is technically the front-runner or not depends on how you assess the impressive poll numbers of the undeclared Joe Biden: Are those a real signifier that the Democratic Party’s moderate wing is ready to have the former vice president as its champion, or just an artifact of name recognition that will collapse once Biden starts having to answer for his record? But every normal metric makes Sanders a front-runner, and a stronger-looking candidate than all his declared rivals: His fund-raising is impressive, his crowds are big, and his early poll numbers give him both the expected 20-25 percent floor and room to grow. (In the weekend’s poll of Iowa, he would claim almost a third of Biden’s supporters if the ex-vice president decided not to run.) And he’s facing a field sufficiently large that the advantages of having a core of unshakable supporters are likely to be magnified. Meanwhile his campaign so far is suggestive of the ways — again, like Reagan — that a long history of ideological extremism can actually be helpful to a presidential candidate. Precisely because Sanders is a known quantity, because nobody doubts his commitment to left-wing policies, there may be less pressure on his campaign to embrace every idea floated by reporters or touted by activists. (It’s probably a good sign, for instance, that he was just attacked from the left by Julián Castro for insufficient zeal on reparations.) Nor does he need to adopt the strident tone of younger would-be revolutionaries or the politicians pandering to them to prove his socialist bona fides. As the conservative writer Ben Domenech noted recently, “the truth is that Sanders, despite his socialist label, seems to have a less harsh vision of politics than many others within the party.” Because his record is what it is, he won’t always have to be the most zealous candidate on stage — and like Reagan, he might even be able to promise certain kinds of moderation while keeping his base secure in his fundamentally revolutionary intentions. Of course this last possibility is just a hypothetical, and Sanders’s rumpled-professor style of socialism (and all those Soviet-friendly video clips lurking on YouTube) might ultimately inspire more backlash than Kamala Harris running hard to the left or Elizabeth Warren filling in all the policy details that Sanders leaves a little hazy. To argue that Sanders has qualities in common with Reagan is not to argue that he’s necessarily the most electable Democrat, or that in nominating him the party wouldn’t be taking a substantial risk — as Reagan really was a risky choice in 1980, and his victory by no means foreordained. But it is to argue that if you want a new president to be transformative — as, obviously, many people on the left desire — there are clear advantages in electing somebody whose entire career is associated with an ideological insurgency, and whose victory would shock the more adaptable sort of politician into understanding themselves as inhabitants of a new political reality, in which no matter what poll numbers show on any given issue, it’s taken for granted that the former world has passed away. You can’t get that change just by electing an ideologue as president; his actual presidency also has to be understood (as Reagan’s was, rightly, despite the vigorous critiques offered by a certain Vermont mayor at the time) as a success. And there are good reasons, conservative and otherwise, to doubt that a President Bernie would be successful enough to run on his own version of “morning in America” in 2024. But Bernie-ism is obviously where a large fraction of the Democratic Party wants to go, and with Trump weak and Carter-esque the chances that someone will get elected on a very left-wing platform are reasonably strong. In which the case for Sanders will remain simple and intuitive throughout the primaries to come: If we’re going to do this thing, let’s do it with the guy who’s actually spent years or decades planning for a realigning moment. Sanders 2020: Accept No Substitutes.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female. Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”\r\nYou can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT  You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT ", "id": "5c87837f49f0eacbf105c972", "date": "2019-03-12T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Says He Will Release Tax Returns by Monday", "full_text": " Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders says he will release 10 years of his tax returns before April 15. Sanders had been promising to release a decade's worth of tax returns for more than a month. He declined to do so during the 2016 presidential race, but the issue has taken on new significance as House Democrats try to force President Donald Trump to release his tax returns. In an interview last week, Sanders campaign manager Faiz Shakir said the senator and his wife, Jane, wanted to finish their 2018 taxes first. Several of Sanders' rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination have already released their 2018 tax returns. Sens. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York have both released a decade of their own returns.", "id": "5caed2d749f0eacbf1f8293f", "date": "2019-04-11T05:37:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Embraces a New Role: Democratic Front-Runner", "full_text": " DAVENPORT, Iowa — Bernie Sanders is embracing a new role: front-runner. The Vermont senator leads the pack of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates in fundraising and is drawing big crowds in early voting states. Sanders raised more than $18 million in the first fundraising quarter, far outpacing his rivals. Sanders is embracing his new status. He draws explicit comparisons with President Donald Trump in his campaign remarks, previewing his approach to a general election faceoff with the incumbent Republican. He's also building out a larger, more diverse campaign operation. That's in response to criticism that his 2016 organization skewed too heavily white and male. Campaign officials say the 2020 campaign staff of roughly 100 people and growing is majority female and 40 percent people of color.", "id": "5cadc7a649f0eacbf1f82487", "date": "2019-04-10T10:36:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A 2016 Hangover: Some Bernie Sanders Supporters Still Upset", "full_text": " IOWA CITY, Iowa — It was hard to miss Cheri Pichone's excitement about Bernie Sanders' second presidential run. She showed up to a recent Iowa rally decked out in Sanders gear, complete with a figurine of the Vermont senator and progressive icon. But underneath her exuberance, the 36-year-old was still mad about the last Democratic primary, when Sanders' bid for the presidency fell short to Hillary Clinton. \"They cheated,\" she said, directing much of her anger at the Democratic National Committee. The party establishment, she lamented, was \"actively working against us.\" Pichone voted for Green Party candidate Jill Stein in 2016 and said she may vote for a third party again if Sanders doesn't clinch the nomination. She's emblematic of a persistent group of Sanders supporters who won't let go of the slights — real and perceived — from the last campaign. The frustration is notable now that Sanders is a 2020 front-runner, raking in $18.2 million in the first quarter, downplaying concerns about DNC bias and highlighting his success in bringing the party around on liberal policies it once resisted. Some establishment-aligned Democrats worry the party could lose in 2020 if lingering concerns about the last primary aren't put to bed. \"It has the potential to escalate, and it has the potential to help re-elect Donald Trump,\" said Mo Elleithee, a former spokesman for Clinton and the DNC. The acrimony stems from a fiercely fought campaign and a sense among Sanders loyalists that party leaders privately favored Clinton. DNC leaders at the time scheduled fewer debates than Republicans and sometimes slated them for nights with low television viewership. Often opaque delegate allocation rules also contributed to a belief among some Sanders supporters that the primary was essentially rigged. According to data from the Pew Research Center, the tension took a toll. About 81% of people who consistently supported Sanders during the primary season and were confirmed to have voted in the general election said they ultimately voted for Clinton, while 11% said they supported Stein or Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, and 3% supported Trump. In a closely contested election, those moves away from Clinton may have factored into the results. Since the election, party leaders have sought to smooth things over with Sanders and his supporters. DNC Chairman Tom Perez is planning a robust debate schedule. The rules governing superdelegates — party insiders who overwhelmingly backed Clinton — have changed. Sanders has publicly expressed confidence in the process this time around, but in terms that suggest he won't soon forget 2016. \"In 2016, I think I will not shock anybody to suggest that the DNC was not quite evenhanded,\" he said during a CNN town hall in February. \"I think we have come a long way since then, and I fully expect to be treated quite as well as anybody else.\" In an interview Friday, Sanders campaign manager Faiz Shakir echoed that optimism. \"If you're talking to anyone at the Democratic National Committee who's there now, I'm sure they will tell you that their relationship with the Bernie Sanders campaign is great and that we are operating in good faith and we are talking to each other on an almost daily basis,\" he said. \"Anyone suggesting that there's any kind of friction there is living in the past. They are living with some grudges that they are holding onto from a bygone time.\" Still, the campaign has made some moves that raise questions about whether resentments from 2016 will linger. Briahna Joy Gray, formerly a liberal journalist who voted for Stein, is Sanders' national press secretary. Nina Turner, who called the DNC \"dictatorial and pompous\" in 2017, is one of his national campaign chairs. And some of Sanders' most loyal supporters in the crucial early voting states say they're not ready to fully move on. Nicholas Shaw, a 39-year-old from Concord, New Hampshire, spent his recent birthday watching Sanders speak. Like Pichone, he said he wouldn't support the Democratic nominee if it's anyone other than Sanders. \"If they steal it from him again, I'll go independent or something other than that,\" he said. \"The Democratic Party's on their last edge of me if they kind of try to screw him again.\" Even in South Carolina, where Sanders lost momentum after a 47-point drubbing from Clinton, some supporters are still smarting over a process they believe was rigged. \"Lost might be a stretch,\" said Tom Amon, of Summerville, when asked how he felt about Sanders' ability to perform better in South Carolina than he did in the 2016 primary. \"It was stolen from him.\" ___ Woodall reported from Manchester, New Hampshire, and Kinnard reported from North Charleston, South Carolina. Associated Press writer Juana Summers in Davenport, Iowa, contributed to this report. ___ This story has been corrected to reflect that Sanders' campaign manager is Faiz Shakir, not Fiaz Shakir.", "id": "5cacbffb49f0eacbf1f81ea4", "date": "2019-04-09T15:52:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Jimmy Fallon Gets in Costume to Roast Bernie Sanders", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont begins his campaign for president with a few advantages: Having run in 2016, he already has widespread name recognition and a broad base of supporters and donors. Meanwhile, comics looking to make fun of him also have a head start. Sanders announced on Tuesday that he was running for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, and the late-night TV hosts were ready with a familiar litany of Sanders tropes. Jimmy Fallon told jokes about his age, his disdain for the wealthy and the volume of his voice. “At age 77, Bernie’s the only candidate who tossed his hat and his teeth into the ring.” — JIMMY FALLON “Within hours, his campaign raised more than $1 million. Bernie actually brought in so much money that he spent the rest of the day attacking himself. He was like, ‘We need to take the money out of my campaign!’” — JIMMY FALLON After delivering a string of one-liners, Fallon presented a parody of Sanders’s campaign announcement. The “Tonight Show” host donned glasses and a gray wig, and impersonated Sanders’s Brooklynite inflection. “Hello, I’m Bernie Sanders, and I’m yelling for president of the United States,” a costumed Fallon began. Later, he added: “Our country faces many problems right now. Human jobs are being replaced by artificial intelligence and robotics — which is very troubling when so many of us still can’t figure out what the hell Alexa is.” Stephen Colbert was amused by the way Sanders chose to announce his presidential bid: at 6:20 a.m., on Vermont Public Radio. “Bernie made his campaign announcement this morning in the most Bernie way possible: on Vermont Public Radio. Yeah — electric! It’s a hot booking. After that, he made it official by posting a flier on his local co-op bulletin board.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Trevor Noah focused on Sanders’s video announcement, which went online shortly after his radio spot. Noah said Sanders looked surprisingly well put together. “You can tell that Bernie’s serious about winning, because he didn’t rub his hair with a balloon before filming this video. He’s serious now!” — TREVOR NOAH “Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez last week compared President Trump’s border wall to the Berlin Wall. Hey, come on, it’s nothing like that. That wall got built.” — SETH MEYERS “Tomorrow, President Trump is meeting with the chancellor of Austria — yeah — which could only mean that we’re two days away from having to apologize to the people of Australia.” — JIMMY FALLON “There’s a rumor going around about Elizabeth Warren that says she told the cashier at IKEA that she was 1 percent Swedish so she’d get a discount on meatballs.” — JIMMY FALLON The tale of the attack reported by the “Empire” star Jussie Smollett just keeps getting weirder. Noah is transfixed. To help wash down all that Bernie Sanders content, here’s a warm and fuzzy video about a couple of billionahs. Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, will sit down with Noah on Wednesday. For two years, Desus Nice and the Kid Mero’s irreverent Viceland show set a high bar for lowbrow late-night television. On Thursday, they’ll debut a new weekly program on Showtime. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5c6d19be3a125f5075c0a8ba", "date": "2019-02-20T09:09:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Puts Focus on Healthcare With Medicare for All Bill", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders unveiled the latest version of his ambitious \"Medicare-for-All\" plan on Wednesday, moving the healthcare debate among Democratic presidential contenders to center stage in the 2020 race. The Sanders plan, similar to his 2017 proposal that languished in the Senate, would largely eliminate private insurance and shift all Americans into a Medicare-based government-run healthcare plan that Republicans have criticized as too costly and radical. The bill has 14 Democratic co-sponsors in the Senate, including four of his presidential rivals - Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren. The other White House contender in the Senate, Amy Klobuchar, supports universal healthcare and expanding Medicare but has not committed to plans that would eliminate private insurance. A similar measure in the House of Representatives has more than 100 co-sponsors. \"The current debate over Medicare for All really has nothing to do with healthcare; it has everything to do with greed and profiteering,\" Sanders said at a Capitol Hill event to roll out the proposal, where he was joined by Gillibrand. \"This is a struggle for the heart and soul of who we are as the American people,\" he said. Sanders, an independent senator from Vermont who mounted an unsuccessful 2016 White House run, has turned the proposal, once dismissed as too fringe, into a centerpiece of the Democratic Party's agenda heading into the 2020 White House race. At least 10 other Democrats vying for the right to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in 2020 have backed some similar form of government-run healthcare, and every Democrat supports taking at least smaller steps toward achieving universal coverage. Other prominent Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have urged the party to focus on protecting and strengthening the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, which Trump and Republicans have vowed to dismantle. The Sanders proposal, which has little chance of passage in the Republican-run Senate, expands on his old bill to include coverage of home and community-based long-term care services for people with disabilities. Sanders does not put a price tag on the proposal, but would raise revenues to help pay for it through a combination of taxes on employers, individuals, businesses and the wealthy. He suggests that healthcare spending and administrative costs would decrease and costs for consumers would be reduced. The liberal Urban Institute estimated the earlier Sanders plan would cost $32 trillion over a decade, with the additional taxes raising about $15 trillion. Republicans have criticized the bill as a socialist pipe dream that would be too costly and weaken the U.S. healthcare system. They have promised to make it a key election issue in 2020. \"It's the same tired, debunked logic that Washington, D.C., knows best and the American people can't be trusted to decide what's best for themselves and their families,\" Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said.  (Reporting by John Whitesidess; editing by Jonathan Oatis)", "id": "5cae50d749f0eacbf1f82765", "date": "2019-04-10T20:22:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Releases 10 Years of Long-Awaited Tax Returns", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders on Monday released 10 years of his long-anticipated tax returns as he campaigns for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination. The returns provide a more detailed look at Sanders' finances than when he ran for president in 2016. The release also confirms that Sanders' income crossed the $1 million threshold in 2016 and 2017, though he reported less earnings in his most recent return. His 2018 return reveals that he and his wife, Jane, earned more than $550,000, including $133,000 in income from his Senate salary and $391,000 in sales of his book, \"Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In.\" Sanders' campaign said in a news release that he paid 26% effective tax rate in 2018. During his first presidential bid, Sanders released just one year of his tax returns despite primary rival Hillary Clinton pushing him to follow her lead and release multiple years of tax information. He declined to do so, disclosing only his tax return for 2014. Tax transparency has been in the spotlight as Donald Trump bucks decades of presidential tradition by declining to show voters his tax filings and House Democrats seek to force him to turn them over. During a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday, Sanders said that he'd increased his income by publishing a book — he's written two with campaign themes — and that he wouldn't apologize for that. He also challenged Trump to release his tax returns. \"I guess the president watches your network a little bit, right?\" Sanders said to the moderators. \"Hey, President Trump. My wife and I just released 10 years. Please do the same.\" The filings show that Sanders, who throughout his career has called for an economy and government that works for everyone and not just the 1 percent, is among the top 1 percent of earners in the U.S. According to the liberal-leaning Economic Policy Institute. families in the U.S. earning $421,926 or more a year are part of this group. In a statement accompanying the release, Sanders said that the returns show that his family has been \"fortunate,\" something he is grateful for after growing up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck. \"I consider paying more in taxes as my income rose to be both an obligation and an investment in our country. I will continue to fight to make our tax system more progressive so that our country has the resources to guarantee the American Dream to all people,\" Sanders added. Sanders, 77, has also listed Social Security payments for each year of the decade of tax returns he made available Monday. By 2018, his wife, 69, was also taking Social Security, providing the couple with nearly $52,000 for the year. Sanders' status as a millionaire, which he acknowledged last week, was cemented in his 2017 statement. That year, Sanders disclosed $1.31 million income, combined from his Senate salary and $961,000 in book royalties and sales. His higher income in two of the three most recent years could potentially prompt questions from voters about his frequent criticisms of the influence that millionaires and billionaires have over the political process. Sanders and his wife disclosed $36,300 in charitable contributions in 2017, but their return does not detail each individual contribution. That same year, the couple announced publicly that they had donated $25,000 as a grant to launch the Sanders Institute, a nonprofit educational organization aligned with the senator's political and ideological interests. Jane Sanders was a co-founder of the nonprofit, along with her son, David Driscoll, who became the institute's executive director. Sanders and his wife put the institute on hiatus last month amid criticism that the nonprofit blurred lines between family, fundraising and campaigning. Jane Sanders said the nonprofit would cease operations beginning in May \"so there could not even be an appearance of impropriety.\" A number of Sanders' rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination — including Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Kamala Harris of California and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — have released tax records to varying degrees. Gillibrand was the first candidate to release her 2018 tax returns, and her campaign released a video in which she called on other candidates to join her. Warren, who has also already released her 2018 tax returns, made public 10 years of tax information last year. Harris released 15 years of tax returns over the weekend. Klobuchar released her 2018 tax return on Monday and said in a campaign video that she hoped Trump, who spent the day campaigning in Minnesota, would release his own taxes on his trip to the state. (He didn't.)", "id": "5cb5002749f0eacbf1f84574", "date": "2019-04-15T22:03:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Has an Important Lesson for Republicans", "full_text": " The G.O.P. could really use a remarkably successful policy entrepreneur.  Mr. Suderman is the features editor at Reason. Last week, Bernie Sanders released the latest version of his “Medicare for all” plan, which would establish a federally run single-payer system to finance care for everyone in the United States. The plan has changed little from its previous iterations, but there is one crucial difference: This version is backed by several of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination. Republicans are, by most appearances, thrilled — or at least relieved — to be running against Mr. Sanders and his plan, which would wipe out most private health insurance coverage, with prominent Republican politicians from President Trump on down taking repeated swipes at the idea. But rather than simply mocking him, Republicans should take a minute to learn from what he has accomplished, and how. You don’t have to support single payer — I certainly don’t — to see that Mr. Sanders has been remarkably successful as a policy entrepreneur. Working as an outsider over the course of a long political career, he has moved a sweeping and radical idea into the mainstream of Democratic policymaking. In doing so, he has modeled a certain kind of tenacious political salesmanship, using the Senate and his presidential campaigns as platforms to advance a major policy idea without initial backing from party leadership. Few if any legislators on the right are attempting anything comparable. And yet they could. The strategies Mr. Sanders employed would be available to any Republican or independent right-of-center politician inclined to use them. First, and most important, he had a clear vision, and he has tirelessly made the case for that vision and the benefits he believes it will provide: coverage for everyone, no premiums or co-payments, no maze of insurance paperwork to navigate. When Mr. Sanders talks about Medicare for All, he doesn’t treat it as a bureaucratic system, a complex piece of legislation to be explained. Instead, he is relentlessly focused on why he believes his ideas would improve the lives of ordinary voters. That persistence is another of Mr. Sanders’s strengths. The latest version of his Medicare for All legislation is the fifth iteration, a sign of his long-term commitment not only to the broad strokes of the idea but also to legislation that gives it shape and form. Building on the democratic socialist politics of his youth, he has been pushing for government-run universal coverage for years, even in the face of considerable resistance from the Democrats he has caucused with. That, too, accounts for some of his success: Mr. Sanders, probably the nation’s most successful independent politician, has not been afraid to oppose Democratic Party leadership or work outside of traditional partisan power structures. Instead, over the years, he has built his own base of political power, including the Congressional Progressive Caucus, a group for liberal legislators that he helped found and led in the 1990s. In the process, he has helped promote others who share his ideas and can echo and amplify his message — lawmakers like the co-chairwoman of the Progressive Caucus, Representative Pramila Jayapal, who recently introduced a single-payer plan that is, if anything, more far-reaching than Mr. Sanders’s. The radicalism of single payer has long been seen as a drawback, but Mr. Sanders has arguably used it to his advantage. Instead of pushing for incremental tweaks, he has forced a broad discussion about upending the nation’s entire health care system in one fell swoop. In fact, he has recently rejected some of the more incrementalist tweaks to Obamacare favored by party leadership. Mr. Sanders has paired his radicalism with transparency and a willingness, at least up to a point, to talk about some of the trade-offs his plan would require. He has been blunt about the fact that his plan would largely eliminate private insurance and has argued that this is both necessary and good. At the same time, he has left some of the most difficult policy questions open for discussion — in particular the problem of how to finance the significant increase in government spending that Medicare for all would entail. Here, his strategy seems to be to open the floor for discussion, allowing third parties to present various ideas, and then see which ones, if any, take hold. In the end, it may still not be enough. A full-fledged Sanders-style single payer system is almost certainly too disruptive, too fiscally burdensome, too big a political lift, at least for the foreseeable future. And Mr. Sanders’s brand of cantankerous democratic socialism would pose real risks if he was installed in the presidency, where he would be expected to manage and govern rather than simply campaign. Yet even in defeat, he is likely to come out ahead. Over the past several years, he has pushed Democrats in Congress and the progressive policy apparatus — think tanks, activist organizations, academic influencers — to think seriously about ways to move closer to his goal, laying the groundwork for a big health care push at the next opportunity. Democrats may not follow his exact plans, but the party is now chasing his vision. Mr. Sanders doesn’t deserve all the credit for Democrats’ leftward turn, but he was ready and waiting when it happened. And he has thus provided Republicans and others on the right with a model — not of policy design, but of legislative advocacy, of using the power of the Senate and a presidential campaign to build support for a major substantive idea. Republicans have, on occasion, pressed similarly to bring issues to the fore — think of Rand Paul’s opposition to federal surveillance policy. But there’s no Republican who has played a similar role on health care, and none who appears poised to do so. And any Republican lawmaker who wanted to do so would need to have a big idea, like, say, the conservative health analyst Avik Roy’s plan to restructure Medicare, or the Cato Institute health policy scholar Michael Cannon’s idea for large, tax-free health savings accounts. Instead, Republicans tend to work within the system, defer to leadership and duck difficult questions about trade-offs. Needless to say, there’s hardly a policy vision to guide them. But if Republicans want to become, as President Trump says, the “party of health care,” Mr. Sanders has demonstrated the sort of long-term, dogged effort it is likely to take. His single-payer plan may thus prove to be a gift to Republicans in more ways than one. Peter Suderman is the features editor at Reason. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cb50d4e49f0eacbf1f845ae", "date": "2019-04-15T23:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders’s Campaign Work Force Will Be Unionized", "full_text": " Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign staff will be represented by a union, his campaign announced on Friday, saying it would be the first time a major-party candidate had a unionized work force. The employees will be represented by a unit of the United Food and Commercial Workers union. They voted to unionize through what is known as a card-check system: A majority of employees signed forms indicating their interest. Mr. Sanders has previously called for that method to be used at all companies, instead of traditional elections. “Bernie Sanders is the most pro-union candidate in the field, he’ll be the most pro-union president in the White House, and we’re honored that his campaign will be the first to have a unionized work force,” his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said in a statement. One other Democratic candidate, Julián Castro, said in January that he would be supportive if his employees chose to unionize. Mr. Sanders has long been an ardent supporter of organized labor. But in the months leading up to the announcement of his 2020 bid, his campaign was forced to deal with the disclosure of lingering resentment among some female and black staff members who felt mistreated during Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign. Women who worked for him in 2016  described sexual harassment and unequal pay and said the Vermont senator failed to address the problems. Mr. Sanders met with about two dozen former employees in January to discuss the complaints, and he publicly apologized twice to the women who were mistreated. Some black employees, too, said they had felt undervalued during the 2016 campaign, in which Mr. Sanders struggled to win over black voters. Now, as the presidential field takes shape for 2020, Mr. Sanders finds himself in an unfamiliar position: front-runner. In the four years since he kicked off an insurgent campaign against Hillary Clinton, his progressive brand of politics has become a dominating force in the Democratic Party. Numerous Democratic candidates have endorsed policies, like “Medicare for all” and free college tuition, on which Mr. Sanders used to primarily stand alone.   ", "id": "5c8c2f6a49f0eacbf105d605", "date": "2019-03-15T23:02:40+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kimmel Suggests Bernie Sanders’s Cash-Heavy Campaign Could Spend a Bit on ‘Personal Grooming’", "full_text": " Best of Late Night Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Most of the news around Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign has been positive of late: He pulled ahead of Joe Biden in a national poll, and first-quarter statistics showed that he has raised more money this year than any other Democratic candidate. Meanwhile, he also released 10 years’ worth of tax returns. The late-night hosts got in some good-natured jabs about Sanders’s fund-raising success, his income and his potential Democratic opponent Joe Biden. “The race for 2020 is underway, and a new poll found that Bernie Sanders is now leading Joe Biden by 29 percent to 24. You can tell Joe Biden is stressed: He spent the day giving himself a massage.” — JIMMY FALLON “Of the Democrats, Bernie Sanders has raised the most money so far — $18.2 million. Zero of which has been spent on personal grooming.” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Bernie Sanders yesterday released his taxes. He released 10 years’ worth of income tax returns, which is great, but now how about the other 200 years?” — JIMMY KIMMEL “Yesterday Bernie Sanders released 10 years of his tax returns. Finally, now we can get the answers to all of our Bernie-related financial controversies. Like whether he writes off mothballs as a business expense or a snack.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Kimmel made fun of President Trump for tweeting angrily about the fact that Sanders was featured in a Fox News town hall special. “He gets very jealous when his Fox makes other friends.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, referring to the show “Fox and Friends” In the two days since a fire incinerated the roof and spire of the historic Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris, companies have already pledged $700 million toward funding the repairs. Stephen Colbert said we should all be grateful for the generosity — on one condition. “That is absolutely lovely — it’s great these businessmen and corporations are stepping up. I just pray that they don’t sell the naming rights. Because it just would not be the same to visit the Tostitos Notre-Dame Cathedral at Monster Energy Drink Île de la Cité.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Reality star and new mom Kristin Cavallari for some reason told E! that her husband, former Bears quarterback Jay Cutler, ‘unclogged her milk ducts by “sucking harder than he’s ever sucked.”’ Clearly she has never seen her husband play football.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “President Trump reportedly refers to his daughter Ivanka as ‘baby’ in official meetings. ‘That’s really inappropriate, Daddy,’ said Stephen Miller.” — SETH MEYERS Stephen Colbert hopes that this Brexit special, which he filmed in England over the weekend, leaves him with “three years of agonizing reappraisal.” Sometimes Conan O’Brien puts together skits that are so quirky, they’re not really funny until the very end — at which point they do something that might make you laugh until you’re sore. O’Brien will air his prime-time special “Conan in Australia” on Wednesday night, continuing a tradition of international shows that has already taken him to Italy, Israel, Mexico and many other places. In a miraculous turn of timing, many of the sculptures at Notre-Dame cathedral had been removed just days before, and survived the fire. Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now The 25 Best Films of the 21st Century The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right Now", "id": "5cb6f5cc49f0eacbf1f84d9e", "date": "2019-04-17T09:44:17+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Courting Black Voters, Bernie Sanders Draws Personal Contrast With Trump", "full_text": " NEW YORK — Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders, courting the black voters who did not support his 2016 White House run, drew a sharp personal contrast on Friday with what he called President Donald Trump's racist policies. Sanders, a U.S. senator from Vermont, told a crowd of African-American activists that his push for economic equality, including universal healthcare, free public college and a higher minimum wage, would help ease the country's racial wealth gap. \"Like many of you here, I have been fighting for economic, social and racial justice. As this presidential campaign begins, I believe that is the defining difference between President Trump and me,\" Sanders said at the Reverend Al Sharpton's National Action Network in New York. \"Donald Trump is a man who has said he believes Nazis and white supremacists are 'very fine people,'\" Sanders said, a reference to Trump's comments after violence at a white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Virginia in 2017. \"I am the son of an immigrant whose family was murdered by the Nazis, and so, from a very young age, I knew that we must stand up to bigotry wherever it exists.\" Sanders, whose father was an immigrant from Poland, struggled to win black support in his losing 2016 Democratic primary race against Hillary Clinton, who along with her husband, former President Bill Clinton, had proven appeal to black voters. Since launching his 2020 presidential campaign, Sanders has made an effort to emphasize his history of civil rights activism and make an explicit case for how his economic policies would benefit African-Americans. 'HE HAS LIVED UP TO EVERYTHING' At the conference, Sanders drew words of praise from Sharpton, who has said he will not endorse a Democratic candidate until later in the year. Sharpton reminded the crowd, however, of his breakfast in Harlem with Sanders at the height of the campaign for president in 2016. \"I can say in the two years since, he has lived up to everything he has said to me and more. I want you to know he has done what he said,\" Sharpton told the crowd. Sanders was one of seven Democrats who spoke to the conference on Friday. Five others in the growing Democratic 2020 White House field appeared at the conference earlier in the week. The candidates have backed an array of policies to close the racial gap in economic equality, improve access to healthcare and institute criminal justice reforms including eliminating cash bail, outlawing the death penalty, legalizing marijuana and wiping clean the records of non-violent drug offenders. Democrats in the 2020 race have intensified their outreach to black voters this year following the first decline in African-American turnout in 20 years during the 2016 election, which helped sink Hillary Clinton and contributed to Trump's stunning upset victory. The historically diverse 2020 Democratic field includes black, Hispanic and openly gay candidates, as well as a record six women so far.  U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren raised the prospect in her speech of eliminating the Senate filibuster, the procedural rule that requires a 60-vote supermajority in the 100-member chamber, for legislation, saying it had been used through history to block civil rights and other bills. Democrats eliminated the filibuster for some executive branch and lower-level judicial appointments when they controlled the Senate under Democratic President Barack Obama. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell has curtailed it further to apply to Supreme Court nominations. Eliminating the filibuster for legislation would be a significant escalation of the partisan battle that has raged in Congress in recent years. \"For generations, the filibuster was used as a tool to block progress on racial justice. And in recent years, it’s been used by the far right as a tool to block progress on everything,\" Warren said. \"When Democrats have the White House again, if Mitch McConnell tries to do what he did to President Obama, and puts small-minded partisanship ahead of solving the massive problems facing this country, then we should get rid of the filibuster,\" Warren told the conference.  (Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Bill Berkrot)", "id": "5ca794c849f0eacbf1f81393", "date": "2019-04-05T17:46:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Courting Black Voters, Bernie Sanders Draws Personal Contrast With Trump", "full_text": " NEW YORK — Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders, courting the black voters who did not support his 2016 White House run, drew a sharp personal contrast on Friday with what he called President Donald Trump's racist policies. Sanders, a U.S. senator from Vermont, told a crowd of African-American activists that his push for economic equality, including universal healthcare, free public college and a higher minimum wage, would help ease the country's racial wealth gap. \"Like many of you here, I have been fighting for economic, social and racial justice. As this presidential campaign begins, I believe that is the defining difference between President Trump and me,\" Sanders said at the Reverend Al Sharpton's National Action Network in New York. \"Donald Trump is a man who has said he believes Nazis and white supremacists are 'very fine people,'\" Sanders said, a reference to Trump's comments after violence at a white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Virginia in 2017. \"I am the son of an immigrant whose family was murdered by the Nazis, and so, from a very young age, I knew that we must stand up to bigotry wherever it exists.\" Sanders, whose father was an immigrant from Poland, struggled to win black support in his losing 2016 Democratic primary race against Hillary Clinton, who along with her husband, former President Bill Clinton, had proven appeal to black voters. Since launching his 2020 presidential campaign, Sanders has made an effort to emphasize his history of civil rights activism and make an explicit case for how his economic policies would benefit African-Americans. 'HE HAS LIVED UP TO EVERYTHING' At the conference, Sanders drew words of praise from Sharpton, who has said he will not endorse a Democratic candidate until later in the year. Sharpton reminded the crowd, however, of his breakfast in Harlem with Sanders at the height of the campaign for president in 2016. \"I can say in the two years since, he has lived up to everything he has said to me and more. I want you to know he has done what he said,\" Sharpton told the crowd. Sanders was one of seven Democrats who spoke to the conference on Friday. Five others in the growing Democratic 2020 White House field appeared at the conference earlier in the week. The candidates have backed an array of policies to close the racial gap in economic equality, improve access to healthcare and institute criminal justice reforms including eliminating cash bail, outlawing the death penalty, legalizing marijuana and wiping clean the records of non-violent drug offenders. Democrats in the 2020 race have intensified their outreach to black voters this year following the first decline in African-American turnout in 20 years during the 2016 election, which helped sink Hillary Clinton and contributed to Trump's stunning upset victory. The historically diverse 2020 Democratic field includes black, Hispanic and openly gay candidates, as well as a record six women so far.  U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren raised the prospect in her speech of eliminating the Senate filibuster, the procedural rule that requires a 60-vote supermajority in the 100-member chamber, for legislation, saying it had been used through history to block civil rights and other bills. Democrats eliminated the filibuster for some executive branch and lower-level judicial appointments when they controlled the Senate under Democratic President Barack Obama. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell has curtailed it further to apply to Supreme Court nominations. Eliminating the filibuster for legislation would be a significant escalation of the partisan battle that has raged in Congress in recent years. \"For generations, the filibuster was used as a tool to block progress on racial justice. And in recent years, it’s been used by the far right as a tool to block progress on everything,\" Warren said. \"When Democrats have the White House again, if Mitch McConnell tries to do what he did to President Obama, and puts small-minded partisanship ahead of solving the massive problems facing this country, then we should get rid of the filibuster,\" Warren told the conference.  (Editing by Colleen Jenkins and Bill Berkrot)", "id": "5ca8555349f0eacbf1f814ca", "date": "2019-04-06T07:27:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders on the Issues: Where He Stands and What Could Derail Him", "full_text": " Senator Bernie Sanders may have been the runner-up in the last Democratic primary, but by the time he gave Hillary Clinton his endorsement in July 2016, he had garnered the fervent support of millions. With messages about income inequality and proposals like universal health care, free public college and a higher minimum wage, Mr. Sanders sought what he framed as a transformation of the Democratic Party — a platform that many voters enthusiastically rallied around. Three years later, many of Mr. Sanders’s progressive ideas have increasingly become part of the Democratic mainstream, with other candidates echoing them during the race for the party’s 2020 presidential nomination. Now that Mr. Sanders has announced that he will run for it again, here is a refresher on where he stands on key issues and what challenges he faces this time around. Perhaps the most indelible message offered by Mr. Sanders has been his continued insistence that Wall Street and billionaires have “rigged” the system such that wealth and income flow to the country’s richest and most powerful people. The result of this rigging, he argues, is a continuing decline of the middle class and a growing gap between the rich and everyone else. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] To combat these forces, Mr. Sanders has introduced legislation that would increase the number of wealthy Americans subject to the estate tax; called for raising the national minimum wage to $15 an hour (while criticizing companies like Amazon for paying its workers too little); and asked for a $1 trillion infrastructure investment that would create jobs. Mr. Sanders has also repeatedly railed against the political campaign finance system, which he contends is controlled by wealthy people and special interest groups that can contribute unlimited amounts of money to campaigns. He rejected corporate political action committee money when he sought the Democratic nomination in 2016 — a practice that caught on among Democrats in the 2018 midterms — and is well positioned to again raise funds via small-donation contributors. The New York Times has reported that he would begin his 2020 presidential bid with 2.1 million online donors, a huge lead on his competitors. Mr. Sanders, now in his third term representing Vermont in the Senate, drafted a Medicare-for-all bill in 2017 that has since been endorsed by several other Democratic senators, including the presidential candidates Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. [Read more on Bernie Sanders’ 2020 presidential run.] “Medicare for all” has become a rallying cry for progressive Democrats, though it means different things to different people, and exactly which version candidates embrace has become something of an early policy test. Supporters generally agree that it is a way to achieve universal coverage with a system of national health insurance in which a single public program would pay most of the bills, but care would still be delivered by private doctors and hospitals. Such a single-payer, government-run health plan would increase federal spending by at least $2.5 trillion a year, according to several estimates. This month liberal Democrats formally proposed a Green New Deal with a sweeping resolution that addresses climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. The measure, drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, was co-sponsored by Mr. Sanders as well as Ms. Gillibrand and Mr. Booker. One set of proposals Mr. Sanders presented in 2016 that drew widespread attention was the idea of making public colleges and universities tuition-free and significantly lowering student loan interest rates. He continued to highlight the cost of higher education in the months after the 2016 campaign. As some of Mr. Sanders’s supporters have pointed out, the 2020 Democratic primary landscape looks far different than the one in 2016. This time, Mr. Sanders, an independent, will not be the only progressive opponent facing an establishment-backed front-runner. Instead, the 2020 Democratic primary field is already crowded with candidates, some who are newer to the national political scene than he is, and some who have embraced the very policies he championed in 2016. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] As The Times reported in December, Mr. Sanders is struggling to retain the support he garnered two years ago, when he was far less of a political star than he is today. His supporters have conceded that in some ways, Mr. Sanders is a victim of his own success. “Ironically, Bernie’s agenda for working families will be the Democratic Party’s message in 2020, but he may not be the one leading the parade,” Bill Press, a talk show host who supported Mr. Sanders in 2016, said last year. Mr. Sanders has also had a weak track record with black voters — a vital base in the Democratic Party — which could be a potential threat to his candidacy. On Sunday, The Times reported that interviews with nearly two dozen current and former advisers and staff members revealed an uneven commitment on the part of Mr. Sanders and his top advisers to organize and communicate effectively with black voters and leaders during his 2016 campaign. And this year, Mr. Sanders is already dealing with another problem involving his 2016 staff: allegations from women who say they were mistreated or harassed during the campaign. Last month, after The Times published an investigation into complaints by female staff members, Mr. Sanders publicly apologized and later met with former staff members in an effort to calm the unrest.    ", "id": "5c6bf01d3a125f5075c0a62f", "date": "2019-02-19T12:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Notre-Dame, Bernie Sanders, Deutsche Bank: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering the aftermath of the devastating fire at Notre-Dame in Paris, tensions within the Democratic Party, and the expected release of the Mueller report. More than $450 million has already been committed to reconstruct the 850-year-old cathedral, which was badly damaged by fire on Monday. No one was killed, officials said, but two police officers and a firefighter were injured.  The twin medieval towers of one of the most famous landmarks in Paris were saved, but its 300-foot spire collapsed and two-thirds of its roof was destroyed. The fire also endangered its vast collection of Christian relics and artwork. The details: The cause of the fire remains unknown. Notre-Dame had been undergoing restoration work, which fire experts said can result in open flames or sparks from equipment. Here’s what we know and don’t know. Closer look: We have photographs of the cathedral through the ages and video of the disaster. Using images and maps, we also traced how the fire spread. Another angle: As France struggles to cope with recent social and political unrest, the symbolism of the blaze was hard to miss, our architecture critic writes. A blowup over the weekend pitted Mr. Sanders and his presidential campaign team against Neera Tanden, a former aide to Hillary Clinton who is now the president of an influential think tank, the Center for American Progress. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016. The new dispute reflects an ideological division among Democrats, between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of younger voters. Yesterday: Mr. Sanders disclosed 10 years of tax returns, which showed that his earnings shot up after his first presidential bid. He and his wife, Jane O’Meara Sanders, reported income that topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, lifted by proceeds from his books. Here’s how his returns compare with those of other Democratic candidates. Mr. Trump has referred to their country as “our enemy” and “a major threat,” but some of China’s intellectual and business elite are semi-seriously cheering on the U.S. president as he confronts a country that they feel is on the wrong track. True reform would have to come from within China, but if its trade dispute with the U.S. forces the Communist Party to step back from the economy, it might also have to loosen its grip over the rest of society. Quotable: “The various demands by the U.S. government could force us to carry on with the reforms,” one lawyer in Beijing said. “There’s a Chinese saying that carrying out a reform is equivalent to a man cutting off his own arm, which is very hard. It might help if someone else forces you to do it.” Related: Mr. Trump has used his unpredictability as a source of leverage in trade discussions with Europe, Canada, Mexico and others. Business groups and foreign officials worry that his negotiating style has a cost. Last year, Mississippi became one of the first states to allow sports betting after the Supreme Court struck down a law that had effectively banned it in most states. But the disappointing results of sports betting in places like Tunica, a Mississippi Delta town of about 900 residents, has caused other states to rethink a rush to try to tap into the nation’s illegal sports gambling market, estimated to be worth $150 billion.  Quotable: “There were a lot of people who didn’t know what they were talking about,” said Allen Godfrey, the executive director of the agency that oversees the sports betting ventures around Tunica. The philanthropist, with her husband, Bill, heads the charitable foundation that bears their name and is aimed at improving global health and reducing poverty. Its $50.7 billion endowment is the largest in the world. She spoke to the Times Magazine about tech innovation, women’s rights and her own privilege. Date for Mueller report: Attorney General William Barr will release a redacted version of Robert Mueller’s highly anticipated report to Congress and to the public on Thursday, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Subpoena for Trump lender: Congressional investigators have subpoenaed Deutsche Bank and other major institutions, seeking information about business dealings with Russia and President Trump’s finances.  Mar-a-Lago arrest: The Chinese woman who was detained at President Trump’s Florida resort knew before traveling to the U.S. that the event she was planning to attend had been canceled, federal prosecutors have said. They also said on Monday that they were no longer certain that a thumb drive she was carrying was infected with malware. College admissions scandal: Some children of the parents who were charged in the investigation have reportedly been notified that they could be targets of a criminal inquiry. Snapshot: Above, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia by two seconds at the Boston Marathon on Monday, winning in 2:07:57. Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the women’s field, finishing in 2:23:31. Another honor for Tiger Woods: President Trump said on Monday that he would award this year’s Masters champion the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon impersonated Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old who officially launched his presidential campaign over the weekend: “By age 14, I knew I wanted to be president of the United States. And, boy, the two years since have just flown by.” What we’re reading: This essay in The Atlantic. Tom Jolly, who oversees production of our daily print edition, writes: “This is a nice distillation of the joys of reading the newspaper, at your own pace, uninterrupted by texts, calls and general attention-deficit issues. And you can even model your robe for your neighbors!” Cook: Buttermilk-marinated roast chicken requires a bit of advance preparation. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Listen: “N Side,” the first new song in two years from Steve Lacy — who plays in the space-soul outfit the Internet — is a narcotically mellow inversion of 1970s R&B, Jon Caramanica writes. Go: Use our calendar to plan your culture consumption, including Adam Driver and Keri Russell onstage and the Cranberries’ final album. Watch: “Teen Spirit,” Max Minghella’s directing debut, is both proudly clichéd and refreshingly different. It’s a Critic’s Pick. Smarter Living: Simone Davies, an author and Montessori teacher, took our writer through a calming makeover of her children’s playroom. The main idea: Kids play more when there’s less to play with. So toys and books went into a closet, to be rotated out a few at a time. Older children’s crafts went into accessible bins.  And experts at Wirecutter have recommendations to make long flights more enjoyable. In smaller U.S. cities and rural areas, demographic decline is a painful reality. Hungary is worried about a declining population. So is Japan. Even China. It’s an economic truism: Growing populations drive economies. But in this era of climate change, is it wiser to have fewer people to house, feed and provide power for? Globally, a smaller population would “make a difference, certainly,” said Joseph Chamie, a former U.N. population official. “Fewer people means fewer items consumed, and fewer resources used, so your carbon footprint would be less.” But limiting population growth, he said, can’t solve the environmental problems caused by mass production and consumption. And companies whose business models rely on constant growth have little incentive to change. More customers and more consumption mean more profits. “We can try to maintain the quality of the environment,” Mr. Chamie said. “But we have to change our mind-set regarding how the economy moves.” That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. James also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.  P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Carlos Ghosn, the former head of Nissan.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Exaggerate one’s fall, in soccer (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times won two Pulitzer Prizes on Monday, one for an investigation of President Trump’s taxes, and one for Brent Staples’s editorial writing, which helped redefine the history of race in America. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5cb5a1a449f0eacbf1f8479b", "date": "2019-04-16T09:32:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders, Now a Millionaire, Pledges to Release Tax Returns by Monday", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders, whose $18 million fund-raising haul has solidified his status as a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, said Tuesday that he would release 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday and acknowledged that he has joined the ranks of the millionaires he has denounced for years. “April 15 is coming,” Mr. Sanders, whose refusal to release his full past returns has become an issue in the campaign, said in an interview in his office. “We wanted to release 10 years of tax returns. April 15, 2019, will be the 10th year, so I think you will see them.” Told that he was being compared to President Trump, who has refused to release his tax returns, Mr. Sanders got more specific: “On the day in the very immediate future, certainly before April 15, we release ours, I hope that Donald Trump will do exactly the same. We are going to release 10 years of our tax returns, and we hope that on that day Donald Trump will do the same.” Mr. Sanders’s refusal to release his full tax returns was a relatively minor issue in the 2016 Democratic primaries, when Hillary Clinton goaded him to be more transparent. But Mr. Trump’s refusal to release his — and the subsequent effort by House Democrats to force the release — have raised the issue’s profile. Mr. Sanders has bristled at comparisons between his behavior and the president’s. “Not being a billionaire, not having investments in Saudi Arabia, wherever he has investments, all over the world, mine will be a little bit more boring,” Mr. Sanders said. Reminded that he is a millionaire, he did not shirk from the description. “I wrote a best-selling book,” he declared. “If you write a best-selling book, you can be a millionaire, too.” A number of Mr. Sanders’s rivals for the Democratic nomination, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, have already released their 2018 tax returns, Ms. Gillibrand has made 12 years of her returns public. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts released 10 years of her returns last year. Mr. Sanders, a Vermont independent, has repeatedly promised to do the same, but has been evasive about his timing, prompting some speculation that he does not want voters to know what is in them. He has said he and his wife, Jane, who serves as an adviser to his presidential campaign, prepare the returns themselves, without an accountant. In 2016, they released 2014 returns showing $205,617 in income, including $156,441 in wages and salary and $46,213 from Social Security benefits. Mr. Sanders — whose trademark on the campaign trail is his attacks on the “millionaires” and the “billionaires” — had consistently ranked among the least wealthy members of the Senate. But since his 2016 run for the presidency, Mr. Sanders’s financial fortunes have improved. His 2017 Senate financial disclosure forms show he earned roughly $1.06 million that year, more than $885,000 from book royalties. His most recent book, “Where We Go From Here,” was published last year. An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Senator Bernie Sanders and his wife released their 2014 tax returns. It was 2016, not 2014. The article also referred incorrectly to the couple’s summary statement for 2016. The couple did not release a summary statement for that year. Follow Sheryl Gay Stolberg on Twitter: @SherylNYT.  ", "id": "5cacf5ea49f0eacbf1f820d2", "date": "2019-04-09T19:42:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Released His Tax Returns. He’s Part of the 1%.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a leading candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, disclosed 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing a more detailed look at his finances than what he offered when he ran for the White House in 2016. The returns show that Mr. Sanders’s earnings shot up after his first presidential bid, when he built up a vast national following. He and his wife, Jane O’Meara Sanders, reported income that topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, lifted by proceeds from his books. The couple had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, according to their most recent tax return. Mr. Sanders had about $393,000 in book income last year, and he and his wife reported giving nearly $19,000 to charity. Their federal taxes came to $145,840, for an effective federal tax rate of 26 percent. Mr. Sanders’s higher income in recent years has created some political awkwardness for the senator, who in his 2016 presidential campaign frequently railed against “millionaires and billionaires” and their influence over the political process. His income now puts him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers, according to data from the Internal Revenue Service. The candidates’ tax returns showed that they earned substantially more than a vast majority of American households. “These tax returns show that our family has been fortunate,” Mr. Sanders said in a statement. “I am very grateful for that, as I grew up in a family that lived paycheck to paycheck and I know the stress of economic insecurity.” The issue of tax returns has been in the spotlight because of President Trump’s refusal to release his own, a position that defies decades of tradition. House Democrats are now demanding to see his returns. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] Mr. Sanders’s handling of the issue received attention in the 2016 race, when Hillary Clinton, his main rival for the Democratic nomination, pushed him to divulge years of tax returns, as she had done. At the time, Mr. Sanders said his wife did their taxes. “We’ve been a little bit busy lately,” he said during a debate. “You’ll excuse us.” In that campaign, Mr. Sanders disclosed his tax return for only one year, 2014, which showed that he and his wife had an adjusted gross income of $205,271, largely from his Senate salary and Social Security benefits. More recently, Mr. Sanders has come under criticism for his expanding personal wealth. A post on the website ThinkProgress last week called Mr. Sanders’s millionaire status “very off-brand and embarrassing,” and a video suggested he had stopped referring to “millionaires” after he became one himself. The website is run by the Center for American Progress Action Fund, the sister organization of the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank. On Saturday, Mr. Sanders fired back, accusing the think tank of “using its resources to smear” him and other progressive presidential candidates. The think tank was founded in 2003 by John D. Podesta, a close Clinton ally who served as Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman in 2016. (The editor in chief of ThinkProgress said in a statement that the site was an “editorially independent journalistic entity.”) [On Fox News, Mr. Sanders rejected the idea that his wealth was proof of the “American dream.”] Tax returns released by other Democratic presidential candidates have shown that they also earned more than a vast majority of American households in recent years. Senator Kamala Harris of California and her husband reported an adjusted gross income of about $1.9 million last year, while Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and her husband had $846,394 in adjusted gross income. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas also disclosed 10 years of tax returns on Monday, though not his 2018 return. He and his wife, Amy O’Rourke, reported $366,455 in adjusted gross income on their 2017 return. The couple reported donating $1,166 to charity that year, just three-tenths of 1 percent of their income, though it is possible they made other donations not listed on their personal return. The filings showed the extent to which the O’Rourkes have benefited financially from family wealth. Mr. O’Rourke’s income was boosted over the years through his interest, passed to him by his parents, in a shopping mall and an apartment complex. Ms. O’Rourke collects dividends and interest from family partnerships established by her father, the real estate investor William D. Sanders (no relation to Bernie Sanders). In some years, that dividend and interest income contributed over $100,000. A picture of Senator Sanders’s finances was already available through his annual Senate financial disclosure filings, but the tax returns provide a precise accounting of the income earned by Mr. Sanders and his wife over the years. Their 2018 return indicated it was self-prepared. In the past three years, their income has soared as a result of Mr. Sanders’s book writing. His book “Our Revolution” was published shortly after the 2016 election, and a young-adult book, the “Bernie Sanders Guide to Political Revolution,” followed the next year. Another book, “Where We Go From Here,” was published last year. Mr. Sanders reported receiving about $840,000 in book income in 2016 and about $856,000 in 2017. Ms. Sanders listed about $106,000 in income as a book author in 2017. The Sanders campaign said Ms. Sanders had received an advance for a book she is writing “about Jane and Bernie’s experiences together in public service.” In an interview with The New York Times last week, Mr. Sanders acknowledged that he had become a millionaire. “I wrote a best-selling book,” he said. “If you write a best-selling book, you can be a millionaire, too.” Stephanie Saul contributed reporting. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.  ", "id": "5cb4ff5449f0eacbf1f8456f", "date": "2019-04-15T22:00:26+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Bernie Sanders Announces 2020 Bid", "full_text": " Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent and 2016 Democratic primary runner-up whose populist policy agenda has helped push the party to the left, announced this morning that he was running for president again. His bid will test whether he can retain the anti-establishment appeal he enjoyed with many liberal voters three years ago. • A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to fund his border wall. The suit argues that the president does not have the power to divert money for constructing a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending. • Barack Obama does not plan to make an endorsement in the 2020 primary. But that doesn’t mean he’s sitting the race out — behind the scenes, he has counseled more than a dozen likely candidates on how best to beat President Trump. • In interviews over the last month with about three dozen Democratic voters, almost all of them said the controversy around Senator Elizabeth Warren claiming Native American ancestry was overblown. • Ms. Warren’s plan for a new wealth tax represents a more substantial rethinking of the government’s approach to taxation than anything a major presidential candidate has proposed in recent memory. Here’s how it would work. • Senator Kamala Harris visited New Hampshire on Monday for the first time in her life. She faced questions from national reporters about her political ideology, followed by a town-hall-style forum with a big crowd of more than 1,000 voters. • Mr. Trump, speaking in Miami on Monday, said the Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro’s days were numbered. His remarks were seen by some in South Florida as a bid to win over what may be a crucial bloc of voters in the 2020 presidential race. • A senior North Korean official known as Kim Jong-un’s “butler” has begun scouting hotels, factory sites and resorts in Vietnam ahead of the North Korean leader’s second summit meeting with Mr. Trump in Hanoi next week. • Did Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan nominate President Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize? Mr. Trump suggested he did, but Mr. Abe would not comment. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6bec553a125f5075c0a626", "date": "2019-02-19T11:43:55+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders' Tax Returns Show He Became Millionaire After 2016 White House Run", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Democratic presidential contender Bernie Sanders released 10 years of tax returns on Monday, providing details of his growing status as a millionaire fueled by a sharp jump in income from book royalties since his losing 2016 White House run. Sanders, a U.S. senator who routinely rails against the \"millionaires and billionaires\" he says have rigged the system to protect their wealth and power, had an adjusted gross income of $561,293 in 2018, $1,131,925 in 2017 and $1,062,626 in 2016, the returns showed. He augmented his Senate salary with book royalties in each of those years, particularly in 2016 and 2017 when he made more than $800,000 each year in royalties. Sanders has published three books since the start of his first White House run, including bestsellers \"Our Revolution\" and \"Where We Go From Here.\" In 2014, the year before he launched his first presidential campaign, Sanders had an adjusted gross income of $205,271. Sanders had faced mounting pressure to release his taxes, with critics saying the democratic socialist's millionaire status undercut his populist economic message. He has made no apologies for his financial well-being. \"It comes from a book I wrote, pretty good book,\" Sanders told a Fox News Channel town hall on Monday. \"If anyone thinks that I should apologize for writing a best-selling book, I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it.\" The interest in presidential contenders and their taxes has jumped since Republican President Donald Trump shattered decades of tradition during the 2016 campaign by refusing to release his returns - a stance he has continued since entering the White House. Several in the growing field of Democratic 2020 contenders, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Amy Klobuchar, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, and Governor Jay Inslee of Washington, have released their 2018 returns in recent weeks. Beto O'Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, released 10 years of his returns on Monday night. In the most recent year released, 2017, he had an adjusted gross income of $366,455. He promised to release his 2018 return as soon as possible. Most other Democratic contenders have pledged to release their tax returns soon. CHIDES TRUMP But the tax question had become more pressing recently for Sanders, who only released one year of returns during his 2016 campaign, as he moved into a strong early position in polls and fundraising among Democrats seeking the 2020 nomination to challenge Trump. Noting that Trump watches the Fox News Channel, Sanders took the opportunity to chide the president for his failure to release his returns. \"Hey President Trump, my wife and I just released 10 years - please do the same,\" he said during the town hall. Sanders faced criticism for only releasing his 2014 returns during his 2016 Democratic primary battle with Hillary Clinton, a millionaire whom he often derided for giving paid speeches to Wall Street. The tax returns released on Monday showed Sanders paid a 26 percent effective tax rate on his adjusted gross income in 2018. His effective tax rates in 2016 and 2017, his other high-earning years, were 35 percent and 30 percent, respectively. As part of his policy agenda, Sanders has proposed higher taxes on top earners and a big expansion of the estate tax, lowering the threshold where it kicks in to $3.5 million from $11 million, and placing a 77 percent tax rate on the portion of estates worth more than $1 billion.  (Reporting by John Whitesides; Editing by Peter Cooney)", "id": "5cb500ed49f0eacbf1f84578", "date": "2019-04-15T22:07:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Accuses Liberal Think Tank of Smearing Progressive Candidates", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders, in a rare and forceful rebuke by a presidential candidate of an influential party ally, has accused a liberal think tank of undermining Democrats’ chances of taking back the White House in 2020 by “using its resources to smear” him and other contenders pushing progressive policies. Mr. Sanders’s criticism of the Center for American Progress, delivered on Saturday in a letter obtained by The New York Times, reflects a simmering ideological battle within the Democratic Party and threatens to reopen wounds from the 2016 primary between him and Hillary Clinton’s allies. The letter airs criticisms shared among his supporters: that the think tank, which has close ties to Mrs. Clinton and the Democratic Party establishment, is beholden to corporate donors and has worked to quash a leftward shift in the party led partly by Mr. Sanders. “This counterproductive negative campaigning needs to stop,” Mr. Sanders wrote to the boards of the Center for American Progress and its sister group, the Center for American Progress Action Fund. “The Democratic primary must be a campaign of ideas, not of bad-faith smears. Please help play a constructive role in the effort to defeat Donald Trump.” Mr. Sanders sent the letter days after a website run by the action fund, ThinkProgress, suggested that his attacks on income inequality were hypocritical in light of his growing personal wealth. The letter is tantamount to a warning shot to the Democratic establishment that Mr. Sanders — who continues to criticize party insiders on the campaign trail — will not countenance a repeat of the 2016 primary, when he and his supporters believe party leaders and allies worked to deny him the Democratic nomination. That primary between Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton left deep divisions in the party. Democratic leaders worked assiduously to heal rifts and avoid a recurrence in 2020, in part by overhauling the party’s presidential nomination process. Specifically, they engaged in extensive outreach to Mr. Sanders’s fervent base of liberal supporters, who had come to distrust party leadership as beholden to major donors who favored centrist positions and supported Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. Some viewed the Center for American Progress, and its leader, Neera Tanden, as part of that cabal, working to stymie liberal activists and ideas. The letter from Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist who is among the early front-runners in the 2020 Democratic field, threatens to undo a delicate rapprochement, and could presage another bitter primary battle. The Center for American Progress, which is known as CAP, was founded in 2003 by John D. Podesta, a close ally of the Clintons, and is based in Washington. It has played an important role in Democratic politics, even as it is legally required to be independent from the party. It has been funded by major Democratic donors, like the financier George Soros, as well as entities with interests that do not always align with progressive politics, including health insurance companies, Walmart, big banks, defense contractors and foreign governments. The group hosts forums featuring Democratic officials and candidates, including Mr. Sanders, while its action fund wages political advocacy campaigns targeting Republicans. It has also served as a Democratic administration-in-waiting, building teams and developing policies that President Barack Obama drew upon after his 2008 election. The group was expected to fill the same role for Mrs. Clinton had she won the White House in 2016. Both Mr. Podesta, who was the chairman of Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 campaign, and Ms. Tanden, who advised it, were mentioned as candidates for White House chief of staff had Mrs. Clinton won. Ms. Tanden has privately disparaged some of Mr. Sanders’s supporters and advisers during the 2016 campaign. Among them was Faiz Shakir, who advised Mr. Sanders’ 2016 campaign and is his 2020 campaign manager. He worked at CAP for years, helping to launch and run ThinkProgress, which he defended in 2008 as independent from CAP, writing that the website “will oftentimes write items that are bolder, more strident, or more critical than what others here at the institution may be comfortable with.” Since Mr. Trump’s victory, Ms. Tanden has recast herself and her organization as leaders of the anti-Trump “resistance,” and has sought to harness the energy of liberal activists who backed Mr. Sanders in 2016, even as she has continued complaining about his supporters. Ms. Tanden, in an email Sunday morning, deferred comment to the editor in chief of ThinkProgress, which she said is “editorially independent” of CAP and its action fund. On Saturday night, after Mr. Shakir emailed a copy of the letter to leaders of the Center for American Progress groups, Ms. Tanden responded to him with an email calling the situation “unfortunate,” offering to meet to discuss it, and adding of CAP “we share the goals of unity.” That email was provided to the Times by Mr. Shakir. The letter takes issue with ThinkProgress’ commentary on the acknowledgment by Mr. Sanders, who represents Vermont in the Senate as an independent, that he himself became a millionaire partly by writing a best-selling book. One ThinkProgress post deemed the revelation “very off-brand and embarrassing.” Another post contained a video seeking to demonstrate that, as he grew wealthier, he altered his repeated denunciations of “millionaires and billionaires” to no longer include as many references to millionaires. In his letter, Mr. Sanders accused ThinkProgress of “dishonestly” questioning his attacks on income inequality. “Center for American Progress leader Neera Tanden repeatedly calls for unity while simultaneously maligning my staff and supporters and belittling progressive ideas,” he wrote. “I worry that the corporate money CAP is receiving is inordinately and inappropriately influencing the role it is playing in the progressive movement.” Mr. Sanders also accused ThinkProgress of “personal attacks” on two other Democratic presidential candidates who have espoused progressive policies, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. He cited a February post on the website accusing Mr. Booker of undermining a bill he wrote with Mr. Sanders that would allow the importation of medications from Canada and other countries. Mr. Sanders further accused ThinkProgress of playing into President Trump’s hands by publishing op-eds criticizing Ms. Warren for claiming Native American heritage. “I and other Democratic candidates are running campaigns based on principles and ideas and not engaging in mudslinging or personal attacks on each other,” he wrote. “Meanwhile, the Center for American Progress is using its resources to smear Senator Booker, Senator Warren and myself, among others. This is hardly the way to build unity, or to win the general election.” Representatives for Mr. Booker and Ms. Warren did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Jodi Enda, the editor in chief of ThinkProgress, said in a statement that her website’s work is not reviewed before publication by CAP or its action fund, and that the groups “had nothing to do with the article or video about Senator Sanders or articles related to any other political leader.” She said the website “will not take sides in the Democratic primaries,” and suggested that Mr. Sanders was trying to bully the website in response to posts he does not like. “Political leaders should not be able to muzzle or stop coverage that they consider critical,” she said. At campaign events across the country, many supporters of Mr. Sanders still express frustration with the outcome in 2016 and continue to believe the system was rigged by the Democratic establishment. “He was ripped off,” Nicole Zeiler, 44, said before a rally in Pittsburgh on Sunday evening. “I don’t know what else to say.” But she said she expected things to be different this time. “I think that lessons were learned,” she said. “We have Trump now.” During the rally Sunday, Mr. Sanders’s campaign also sent out a fund-raising email to supporters off its dust-up with the Center for American Progress. The subject line: “We are under attack.” Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, and Sydney Ember from Pittsburgh.    ", "id": "5cb34d1e49f0eacbf1f83ef9", "date": "2019-04-14T15:07:48+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Says ‘No’ to Incrementalism, Highlighting Divide Among Democrats", "full_text": " When House Speaker Nancy Pelosi introduced legislation this week to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, Democrats across the ideological spectrum were quick to express their support: moderates, liberals, even Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the often uncompromising progressive freshman. But not Bernie Sanders. When asked on Tuesday night whether he, too, supported the House bill, Mr. Sanders was defiant. “No,” he said tersely. “No,” he said again, when pressed. “The incremental reform that I support is phasing in ‘Medicare for all.’” Mr. Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, is not one to compromise on his long-held policy positions, especially his signature stance on health care, though he has, in fact, supported non-“Medicare for all” legislation in the past, including backing a 2017 bill to allow people to buy into state Medicaid plans. Yet more than a month into his second presidential bid, his response underscored, once again, his willingness to stand apart from a party he has not joined but hopes to helm. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His reply on Ms. Pelosi’s bill also afforded him momentary distance from ideologically similar rivals, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who on Wednesday tweeted out her own support for the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Sanders’s unflinching position is a reminder to voters that he is unabashedly left-wing and unlikely to worry about working within the confines of the existing system anytime soon. It also reflects a schism within the Democratic Party over the best way to recapture power in Washington: Should Democrats project big, bold policy ideas that could fundamentally alter the political structure but face long odds in a hyperpartisan Congress? Or should they present incremental measures that are more likely to appeal to the center and could succeed sooner? Some candidates, including Ms. Warren, are hoping they can bridge the gap and do both. Others are betting that there is a following for within-the-system politics. Candidates like Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Beto O’Rourke, the former congressman from Texas, have spent the early days of their campaigns highlighting their common-ground legislation with Republican colleagues, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., expected to enter the race next month, wears his bipartisanship like a badge of honor. It is a debate that has raged within the party since before the midterm elections last year, with some strategists suggesting that bold, disruptive ideas like the ones championed by Mr. Sanders electrify voters and spur them to the polls. “Whoever is president next just can’t make incremental change,” said Karine Jean-Pierre, a senior adviser to the progressive political organizing group MoveOn.org, who worked on President Barack Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns. “We just have to be bold, and we have to take chances — people are hurting. We need to move forward in a big way.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Others, however, argue that candidates should offer a vision of political compromise and deliberate change, a line of thinking that seemed to have taken hold anew this week. The day after Ms. Pelosi put forth — and Mr. Sanders rejected — her health care proposal, she introduced a plan to combat climate change inspired by, but far more modest than, the sprawling resolution known as the Green New Deal. (The Green New Deal proposal, which aims to fight climate change as well as address societal problems including income and racial inequality, has garnered qualified support among some Democrats, including Mr. Sanders and other 2020 candidates. But Democrats voted “present” on a motion in the Senate this week to consider the plan, calling the vote a political ploy by Republicans. It failed, 0 to 57.) Mr. Sanders’s campaign said he was not available to comment for this article. Even as Mr. Sanders remained firmly rooted on the left, two presidential candidates rolled out policy proposals this week that seemed more palatable than revolutionary. Ms. Klobuchar, who has been more circumspect in her policy positions than some of her opponents, introduced a plan on Thursday that called for a trillion dollars in federal funds to upgrade the country’s infrastructure, an issue that her aides say has broad bipartisan appeal. Senator Kamala Harris of California announced a plan to invest federal money into teacher pay. Under the proposal, her campaign said, the average teacher in America would receive a $13,500 pay increase. Other candidates have also balked at promoting attention-getting proposals that would fundamentally remake existing policies, even when they broadly support them. During a town hall-style forum on Wednesday night, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey called the current health care system “broken” and said he believed the country should have “Medicare for all.” But he also said, “We have to show a pathway to get there through practical things” that included lowering drug prices, a policy that even some Republicans have embraced. A recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed that 55 percent of Democratic primary voters preferred a candidate who “proposes larger-scale policies that cost more and might be harder to pass into law, but could bring major change on these issues”; 42 percent said they preferred someone who “proposes smaller-scale policies” that would “bring less change.” Mr. Sanders is not the only candidate with bold, agenda-setting policy plans. Ms. Warren, for example, has proposed levying an annual tax on the superwealthy and breaking up technology giants like Amazon and Facebook. But among moderates in the party, the notion that candidates have to be daring to capture the nomination is anathema. “The path to the White House and to majorities has to be in a pragmatic, progressive area,” said Jim Kessler, executive vice president for policy at Third Way, a center-left think tank. “If you go too far left, Donald Trump gets re-elected and Republicans control both houses of Congress.” “Our heads are in the clouds, but our feet are also on the ground at the same time,” he added. He cited his group’s universal health care plan, which he said was “just as ambitious” as Mr. Sanders’s proposed “Medicare for all.” There was, however, a key difference. “It just doesn’t blow up the system,” Mr. Kessler said. “It builds on the existing system.”   ", "id": "5c9ddf0149f0eacbf105fb54", "date": "2019-03-29T09:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Rematch: Bernie Sanders vs. a Clinton Loyalist", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The bad blood started early. In 2008, Neera Tanden, then a top aide on Hillary Clinton’s first presidential campaign, accompanied Mrs. Clinton to what was expected to be an easy interview at the Center for American Progress, the influential group founded by top Clinton aides. But Faiz Shakir, the chief editor of the think tank’s ThinkProgress website, asked Mrs. Clinton a question about the Iraq war, an issue dogging her candidacy because she had supported it. Ms. Tanden responded by circling back to Mr. Shakir after the interview and, according to a person in the room, punching him in the chest. “I didn’t slug him, I pushed him,” a still angry Ms. Tanden corrected in a recent interview. Ms. Tanden now leads the Center for American Progress, Mr. Shakir runs Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign and the enmity between the two camps burst into the open last weekend. Mr. Sanders, angry about a video produced by ThinkProgress that ridicules his new status as one of the millionaires he has vilified on the campaign trail, sent a scorching letter to the center’s board, accusing Ms. Tanden of “maligning my staff and supporters and belittling progressive ideas.” The blowup is another reflection of the ideological divisions among Democrats, this time between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of millennials. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016; his campaign has cast the group as beholden to corporate interests set on thwarting him in 2020. Ms. Tanden rejected that characterization and asserted in an email to Mr. Shakir that the center shares “the goals of unity.” Jodi Enda, the editor in chief of ThinkProgress, said that her website is editorially independent and that “we don’t have a favored candidate, and we don’t have a candidate who we disfavor.” Still, Ms. Tanden’s mother, Maya Tanden, says that her daughter “can be very aggressive.” “She’s not going to let anyone rule over her,” she said, “and she has loyalty to Hillary because Hillary is the one who made her.” “Those Bernie brothers are attacking her all the time, but she lets them have it, too,” Maya Tanden said. “She says Sanders got a pass” in 2016, “but he’s not getting a pass this time.” The Center for American Progress and its sister political arm, with a $60 million combined annual budget and 320 staff members, have played an outsize role in the Democratic Party for nearly two decades. Founded in 2003 by top advisers to Bill and Hillary Clinton, the organization has sought to rebrand itself as a brain trust for the anti-Trump resistance. Its donor rolls overlap substantially with those of the Clintons’ campaigns and foundation. The think tank has taken in millions from interests often criticized by liberals, including Wall Street financiers, big banks, Silicon Valley titans, foreign governments, defense contractors and the health care industry. Individual donors can ask to remain anonymous. Money to the Center for American Progress from the personal foundation of the Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg surged to $665,000 in 2018 from $15,000 in 2017, while Facebook fended off scrutiny for mishandling users’ personal data, fueling violence and providing a platform for Russian election interference. Last year, the center got $1 million from the family foundation of Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner at Bain Capital, and at least $1 million from the tech industry’s Silicon Valley Community Foundation. It also received $225,000 from the private foundation of a Walmart heir, Sam Walton. Ms. Tanden, whose salary was $397,000 in 2018, was an unpaid adviser to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 campaign while running the think tank, and was considered a candidate for a top White House job had Mrs. Clinton won the presidency. Ms. Tanden says she has founded six new policy-intensive groups as the center’s president and increased its annual budget by 25 percent. “That’s what she does — she shows up at rich people’s places because she needs funds from them,” Ms. Tanden’s mother said. “That place runs on Neera Tanden.” Tom Daschle, a lobbyist and former South Dakota senator who is the chairman of the Center for American Progress’s board, said he has full confidence in Ms. Tanden, who he said brings credibility, stature and “enormous experience both managerially and around the issues.” He added that “there are people that are not as supportive of Neera’s leadership, and that’s natural.” From 2016 through last year, the center accepted nearly $2.5 million from the United Arab Emirates to fund its National Security and International Policy initiative, according to previously unreported internal budget documents. From the start, the decision to solicit money from the United Arab Emirates, an ally of Saudi Arabia with a problematic human rights record, fanned internal dissent. A Center for American Progress spokeswoman said on Monday night that it had decided in December to stop taking money from the country. Tensions boiled over in October, after the Saudi-born Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed and dismembered at the order of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, according to an assessment by the C.I.A. Before the C.I.A.’s conclusion became public — but while the crown prince was widely suspected of ordering the killing — the center had pursued plans for a joint panel on “the U.S.-Saudi relationship in light of recent events,” and had invited the Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Khalid bin Salman, the crown prince’s brother, according to an internal email to executives. But the Saudi ambassador fled the country and the plan dissolved. Internal criticism of the Emirati donations leaked into the news media, prompting an in-house investigation that led to the firing of two staff members. One of them, Ken Gude, a longtime executive, is working with a lawyer on a wrongful dismissal lawsuit. In November 2015, after Ms. Tanden invited Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to a question-and-answer session at the center, a dozen staff members stood during an all-staff meeting and read a statement of protest. “Our goal is to promote humanity and shut down oppression and genocide and terrorism. Bringing in another head of state with a record of oppression would further push our mission away,” it read in part. In an email Ms. Tanden sent on the day of the Netanyahu visit, stolen and released by WikiLeaks, she told the think tank’s founder, John D. Podesta, that the “far left hates me” for hosting Mr. Netanyahu, but the invitation “may have sealed the deal with a new board member.” Ms. Tanden was wooing Mr. Lavine, a pro-Israel philanthropist. The next month, Ms. Tanden wrote a jubilant email to Mr. Podesta, telling him Mr. Lavine was joining the board. “So Netanyahu was worth it,” she added, with a smiley face emoji. Mr. Lavine no longer sits on the center’s board, but his foundation remains a big donor. “The Netanyahu event was arranged with the public and private support of the Obama administration, and the notion that it was done at the behest of any donor is preposterous,” a center spokeswoman said. “It’s difficult as a think tank to know exactly how to handle things” like the Netanyahu pressure, said Judd Legum, who was the founding editor of ThinkProgress. “You don’t want to only have people come in who agree with you,” he said, but “there were people who felt it wasn’t tough enough on Netanyahu, and I understood where they’re coming from.” Few rival Ms. Tanden for her bellicosity on Twitter. She has told James Zogby, a pro-Sanders pollster, that “an army will rise up against this bs”; threatened Starbucks’ chief executive, Howard Schultz, with a boycott if he runs for president; and traded insults for two years with Jill Stein, the 2016 Green Party presidential candidate viewed by Ms. Tanden as a spoiler. One recent night, Ms. Tanden feuded on Twitter with liberals over whether Mrs. Clinton condemned far-right hatemongers strongly enough more than two years ago. The online bickering raged for an hour, drawing trolls from both factions, when the woman originally targeted by Ms. Tanden’s tweets delivered a wake-up call: “neera, you’re responding to a graduate student on Twitter at 1:40 am.” Ms. Tanden, who rallied weeping staff members after Mrs. Clinton’s loss, has expertise on domestic policy that dates to the early 1990s. As an Obama administration official, she worked to pass the Affordable Care Act, and during the Trump administration, she has called the center to the ramparts during Republicans’ efforts to repeal it. Under Ms. Tanden’s leadership, the center started a lobbying and social media campaign to save the health care act, including building a web portal that relayed the stories of nearly 3,000 people whose coverage was in danger. Now, as many Democratic presidential candidates drift left toward “Medicare for all” plans like Mr. Sanders’s, the Center for American Progress is pushing its own plan, which reserves a role for private insurance companies, unlike the Sanders proposal. Last week, the center held an off-record briefing and made follow-up contacts with reporters, picking apart the details of Mr. Sanders’s plan. In a fund-raising email to supporters on Sunday night, Mr. Sanders said the briefing was an effort by the think tank “to stop Medicare for All and our progressive agenda.” Mr. Legum said that “from the beginning, the problem was there are all these little factions on the left, each caring about their own issues and their own agenda — and CAP was supposed to be a big umbrella.” Now, he added, “We’re in another period where there’s new energy, new perspectives and people who are once again skeptical of CAP.” Ms. Tanden acknowledged tensions with what she called “millennial agitators” in her party, but blamed Mr. Trump, who made “crazy, radical ideas seem more normal,” she said in the interview. Maya Tanden, Ms. Tanden’s mother, said her daughter was “sick of” the nonstop fund-raising and political squabbling. “She said, ‘Another two years and I’m gone, I don’t care what I do,’” Maya Tanden said. Neera Tanden said she has no such plans. “When Trump won, I was one of the better prepared people to deal with his victory. I righted this ship to be an effective response to him,” she said. “A place to come up with the ideas that would formulate the next generation of ideas.” ", "id": "5cb5342249f0eacbf1f84614", "date": "2019-04-16T01:45:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Raised $18 Million in 6 Weeks, His 2020 Campaign Says", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, his campaign announced Tuesday, a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field. Mr. Sanders received almost 900,000 contributions from 525,000 individual donors, his campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, said. The average donation was $20, compared with $27 in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 presidential campaign, he said. Mr. Shakir said that a majority of Mr. Sanders’s donors were under the age of 39, and that 20 percent of all donors had not contributed to Mr. Sanders’s previous campaigns. He said that 88 percent of the total money raised came from donors giving $200 or less. Mr. Sanders’s announcement of his fund-raising for the first quarter of the year had been highly anticipated, as he was expected to reveal a sizable total. Presidential candidates must report their first-quarter fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but they can choose to disclose information before that deadline. The announcement on Tuesday offered a chance for Mr. Sanders’s team to showcase the breadth of support for his campaign. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] His total for the quarter is the largest announced by a Democratic candidate so far, though most campaigns have not made their numbers public. Senator Kamala Harris of California raised $12 million in the first quarter, her campaign said on Monday. Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., said on Monday that he had raised more than $7 million. Both candidates entered the race in January, several weeks before Mr. Sanders announced his candidacy. Andrew Yang, a New York businessman who is running on a platform that the United States should provide a universal basic income, said Tuesday that he had raised more than $1.7 million from over 80,000 donors — noteworthy figures for a political newcomer. His average donation was $17.92, he said, an amount even smaller than Mr. Sanders’s. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who entered the race in March and has been a prolific online fund-raiser, has yet to announce his haul for the quarter. The fund-raising totals are important beyond the symbolic value they carry for candidates who can point to large numbers of supporters. The Iowa caucuses are still 10 months away, meaning that Democratic candidates will need to be able to fund their campaigns for a long stretch of time just to make it to the first nominating contest. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] “There is zero question now that Bernie will be able to build a very strong and formidable campaign operation,” said Mo Elleithee, who was a spokesman for Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is now the executive director of Georgetown University’s Institute of Politics and Public Service. But Mr. Elleithee said it remained to be seen whether Mr. Sanders’s backers would stick with him as time went on. “What will be interesting is: Is this sustainable as other candidates get better known?” he said. Mr. Sanders posted a bigger opening number than he did in the last presidential race, when he raised about $14 million in the quarter that covered April through June of 2015. Mr. Shakir said it took 146 days, or about 21 weeks, for Mr. Sanders to reach 900,000 donations in that campaign. But the amount raised by Mr. Sanders this quarter was not off the charts for a Democratic presidential hopeful. Mrs. Clinton raised about $47 million in her first quarter as a candidate in the 2016 campaign, though unlike Mr. Sanders, she relied heavily on big donations. Mr. Sanders began the 2020 race with the benefit of an enormous donor base that he developed in his primary campaign against Mrs. Clinton, when he raised well over $200 million. After jumping into the 2020 race on Feb. 19, he quickly reminded his rivals of his large following, collecting $5.9 million in the first 24 hours and a total of $10 million within a week. (Only Mr. O’Rourke disclosed a bigger 24-hour haul, with $6.1 million.) The Sanders campaign had set a goal of receiving one million donations by the end of the first quarter. The campaign fell short of that goal, but Mr. Shakir expressed no regret about having aimed for it. “It was important to us to set an ambitious goal,” he said. Mr. Sanders’s financial resources go beyond the money he has received since entering the presidential race. Like others running for president who have previously run for federal office, he can make use of funds that he had raised in earlier campaigns. He began the 2020 race with $14 million available for his use, Mr. Shakir said. Mr. Shakir said the new fund-raising total showed that the movement Mr. Sanders began in his 2016 campaign was still gaining steam. He noted that there had been questions from pundits about whether that would be the case: “Is this movement sustaining? Is it still there?” “The answer is a resounding yes,” he said. “It is still strong and it is still growing.” Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.    ", "id": "5ca36d4049f0eacbf1f8025c", "date": "2019-04-02T14:08:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Raises $10 Million in Less Than a Week", "full_text": " A clutch of advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders began arriving at the Capitol Hill townhouse that served as his makeshift headquarters before dawn last Tuesday, where they readied themselves to track, among other things, the deluge of donations that would land after Mr. Sanders made his presidential campaign official. As the team snacked on doughnuts that Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager, had brought for launch day, one laptop screen showed a map of the United States. It would light up with an orange dot every time someone gave with the location of each donation. Within minutes of the 7 a.m. announcement, the whole screen was glowing orange, according to people in the room. For Mr. Sanders, the flood of money from fresh email addresses suggested to his team that he was dramatically expanding a donor network that had already dwarfed his 2020 competition. “Our second day,” said Ari Rabin-Havt, a senior adviser to Mr. Sanders, “was bigger than anybody else’s first day.” [Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] There is little surprise that Mr. Sanders, whose 2016 Democratic primary run was powered by $230 million in grass-roots giving, would post big fund-raising numbers if he ran again. But the size of his advantage — he raised $5.9 million in his first day as a candidate, nearly 20 times what Senator Elizabeth Warren did in her first day and nearly four times more than Senator Kamala Harris’s $1.5 million — has established him as a financial front-runner in a crowded Democratic field. “I think the fact that he has raised so much, so fast, so early should be concerning for anyone else who wants to pick up the liberal flag in this nominating contest,” said Craig Varoga, a Democratic strategist who is unaligned in the race. Of Mr. Sanders’s wave of day one donations, only 17 people gave him the maximum allowable amount of $2,800, meaning he can ask more than 99.99 percent of his donors to give again. As of late Monday, only 20 donors have given Mr. Sanders the legal maximum; another 46 gave $2,700, the limit in the last campaign. More than 48,000 donors have already agreed to give to Mr. Sanders over and over, signing up for recurring donations to be drawn from their credit cards worth a combined more than $1 million each month, according to statistics provided to The New York Times by the campaign. The average overall contribution was just under $26. But the fact that such a large share of donations came from new email addresses is perhaps the most significant figure beyond the overall totals. While some fraction of those new email addresses are surely old donors with updated contact information — college students who graduated, for instance, or people who changed jobs — the idea that a sizable share of Mr. Sanders’s donors could be new undercuts the hope among rivals that Mr. Sanders had maxed out a limited, if impassioned, minority of the party when he ran four years ago. “There’s an assumption he’s relying on that loyal base of support from 2016,” said Jen Psaki, a Democratic strategist and former White House communications director for President Barack Obama. But a rush of new donors “would make people question the assumption that Bernie supporters are solely Bernie loyalists from 2016, end of story,” she said. Mr. Sanders raised $73 million in 2015. This year, he entered the race roughly 70 days earlier in the calendar and raised four times as much on his first day, raising the possibility of a $100 million haul in 2019. Hillary Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders in the 2016 primary, raised more than him in that race. But that was with the weight of the Democratic Party establishment behind her, a huge list of supporters from her 2008 run and four million more names from a group called Ready for Hillary that had gathered grass-roots supporters ahead of her campaign. No 2020 rival of Mr. Sanders has anything close to that. In a move that seemed designed to compete with Mr. Sanders for small donors, Ms. Warren’s campaign announced on Monday that she would forgo all traditional private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors. Mr. Rabin-Havt tried to tamp down long-term financial expectations for the Sanders campaign. “It will be remarkable to emulate those 2015 numbers again,” he said. Separately, Mr. Sanders said during a town hall-style forum on CNN Monday night that he would release 10 years of tax returns “soon,” suggesting he would provide more transparency into his taxes than he did in 2016 when he only released one year of filings. Mr. Sanders said he did not release more returns then because “I didn’t win the nomination.” “Our tax returns will bore you to death,” he said. “Nothing special about them.” Money alone is not determinative in presidential politics. In the 2016 Republican primary, a super PAC supporting Jeb Bush burned through $100 million as Mr. Bush finished no better than fourth in any of the first three states. But money does pay for television ads and field staff, and Mr. Sanders’s fund-raising advantage will allow him to take risks and make investments others cannot afford. “He can build a ground game not just in the first four primary states but into the Super Tuesday states,” Ms. Psaki said. “He can expand his playing field in places like California.” The Sanders campaign shared new statistics on its donors so far, which skew younger than is typical. An internal analysis showed more than 108,000 of Mr. Sanders’s first day contributors were 39 years old or younger, and they gave a combined $2.5 million of the $5.9 million raised. The most common age for a Sanders contributor was 30. Relatedly, more than $3 million of the donations that first day came from mobile devices, a sign of both shifting habits and the relative youth of his donor base. The campaign did not provide a breakdown by gender. Mr. Sanders has closely tracked his fund-raising haul, campaign officials said, and Mr. Rabin-Havt said that the senator wrote much of the campaign’s initial 1,400-word email announcement himself. The email did not explicitly ask for money, instead directing people to sign a petition supporting Mr. Sanders. Of those who signed, about 40 percent also contributed, his campaign said. Mr. Sanders’s two top digital advisers in 2020, Tim Tagaris and Robin Curran, are both veterans of his 2016 run, but others from that team are on or expected to join other campaigns. Mr. Rabin-Havt noted the universe of Democratic donors was still growing. “We haven’t hit a diminishing rate of return on this yet,” he said. He added that the Sanders campaign believes it has a unique advantage. “The secret sauce for Bernie Sanders fund-raising,” he said, “is Bernie.” Astead W. Herndon and Sydney Ember contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c747d2049f0eacbf105a1aa", "date": "2019-02-25T23:39:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "President Trump, Karl Lagerfeld, Bernie Sanders: Your Wednesday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  An inside look at President Trump’s war on the investigations around him, the death of Karl Lagerfeld and a new presidential run for Bernie Sanders. Here’s the latest:  For two years, President Trump has waged a very public assault on federal law enforcement over the various investigations that have consumed his presidency, including the special counsel’s inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election. But an examination by The New York Times reveals the extent of more secretive maneuvers.  When federal prosecutors in New York began investigating Mr. Trump’s role in paying women hush money during the 2016 campaign, the president asked his acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, to give control of the inquiry to a Trump ally who had already recused himself. Mr. Trump called that account “fake news.” Here are takeaways from our investigation. How we know: Times reporters interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump and reviewed confidential White House documents, finding numerous unreported episodes of pressure and intimidation that may expose the president to accusations of obstruction of justice. Other troubles for the White House: House Democrats are investigating an administration effort to bring nuclear power plants to Saudi Arabia in defiance of repeated internal legal and ethical warnings. The plan, which risks spreading nuclear weapons technology, may still be circulating at the White House.  The luxury fashion designer, with his signature dark glasses and powdered white ponytail, was one of the most recognizable faces in an industry he helped define. Our director of fashion coverage, Vanessa Friedman, called Mr. Lagerfeld the most prolific designer of the 20th and 21st centuries. Creative director at Chanel since 1983 and Fendi since 1965, he also had his own line. He moved heritage brands into the present “with a healthy dose of disrespect and a dollop of pop culture.” In his 80s, when most of his peers were retiring, Mr. Lagerfeld was designing almost 14 new collections a year. He was variously referred to as a “genius,” the “kaiser” and “overrated.” Read the full obituary. Famous (and infamous) quotes: Among the aphorisms and quips that were eventually collected in a book, “The World According to Karl”: “Sweatpants are a sign of defeat.” He could also be crude, especially about women’s appearances.  Succession plan: Virginie Viard, described by Chanel as Mr. Lagerfeld’s “closest collaborator for more than 30 years,” is the new creative director of the fashion house. Fendi says it will name a successor later. Remembrances: Mr. Lagerfeld’s peers, including the designers Giorgio Armani and Donatella Versace, offered reflections. “Today, the world has lost an icon and a genius,” Ms. Versace said. An estimated 20,000 people demonstrated against anti-Semitism in Paris on Tuesday night, summoned by the country’s major political parties and Jewish organizations, and above all by pervasive fear that France is becoming a dangerous place for Jews. Some of the concern was directed at the Yellow Vest movement, whose fringes have evinced anti-Semitism. Almost no members of the movement were visible in attendance.  The night before the rally, 96 tombs were spray-painted with blue swastikas at a Jewish cemetery in a northeastern village. President Emmanuel Macron visited the cemetery on Tuesday and vowed punishment.  Quote: “Anti-Semitism is profoundly rooted in French society,” Prime Minister Édouard Philippe told Parliament, making a diagnosis rarely enunciated in public. “It takes incredibly varied forms. I don’t think it’s the preserve of any particular group.”  “Long live Italian Istria and Italian Dalmatia.”  Those words from Antonio Tajani, the president of the European Parliament, have prompted lawmakers in Slovenia and Croatia to call for him to step down — they hear a disturbing nationalist provocation from the Italian. His remarks came at a memorial service for Italians who were murdered in a retributory slaughter at the end of World War II. History: As many as 4,000 ethnic Italians living in Istria and Dalmatia, regions that were part of Italy during the war but are today part of Slovenia and Croatia, were killed after Italy’s defeat because they were viewed as collaborators. But Croatians and Slovenians are extremely sensitive to any remarks like Mr. Tajani’s that discount the brutalization of their countries by Italian fascism.  Impact: Prominent European lawmakers introduced a petition last week demanding Mr. Tajani’s resignation. He has apologized but is refusing to resign.  Women in ISIS: The family of a woman who married an Islamic State fighter said Britain intended to revoke her citizenship. And at a refugee camp in Syria, two American women who married militants said they were deeply sorry for joining the Islamic State and asked for a second chance. McKinsey: The global consulting firm operates a secret $12.3 billion hedge fund, prompting questions about conflicts of interest. The firm says the fund is completely separate from its consulting arm and doesn’t benefit from any inside knowledge.  India: A report by Human Rights Watch found that since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in 2014, attacks on religious minorities have spiked and the authorities have blocked investigations into homicides or even filed charges against victims’ families. Egypt: Officials detained a veteran New York Times correspondent, David Kirkpatrick, after he arrived in Cairo, holding him for seven hours before sending him back to London. The case exemplifies the increasingly severe crackdown against the news media under President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. China: A new Zara ad featuring the model Jing Wen’s freckled face has created an uproar in a country that views freckles as blemishes. Some online users even accused the Spanish fashion brand of imposing Western beauty standards on Chinese women. Russia: Plans to ship Moscow’s garbage to the provinces have set off widespread protests at a time when President Vladimir Putin’s standing is slipping in those areas.  Bernie Sanders: The Vermont senator and Democratic primary runner-up in the 2016 presidential election has embarked on a run for 2020, bringing his liberal populist agenda to an increasingly crowded field. In memoriam: Wallace Broeker, an American scientist who warned in a landmark 1975 paper of impending global warming — a term he popularized — has died at 87.  Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: Dates add a welcome touch of sweetness to savory sesame chicken with cashews. Want a flattering selfie? Here’s how to find your good side. If someone you know is in mourning, here’s what to say (and what not to say). Did Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan nominate President Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize? Mr. Trump says he did, but Mr. Abe has declined to comment, citing a Nobel policy of 50 years of secrecy for the process. But an insider could always write a tell-all book. In 2015, the longtime secretary of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Geir Lundestad, did just that, infuriating the committee. Among his revelations: The controversial decision to honor Barack Obama just months into his presidency was intended to strengthen his campaign to rid the world of nuclear weapons. And Mr. Obama considered not going to Norway to accept the award, but realized that would only create more uproar. Back to Mr. Trump — he is definitely in the running this year. Two Norwegian lawmakers have said that they nominated him after his Singapore meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. The Nobel is announced in October. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6ce62b3a125f5075c0a85c", "date": "2019-02-20T05:29:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders, Addressing Sexism Complaints, Will Meet With Former Staff Members", "full_text": " Senator Bernie Sanders, accelerating his efforts to contain the damage from reports of sexism and harassment during his 2016 presidential campaign, plans to meet on Wednesday with a group of former staff members seeking assurances of better practices if he runs again in 2020. As other potential presidential candidates prepare to roll out campaigns with forceful, positive messaging, Mr. Sanders and his supporters have instead been forced to play defense, addressing allegations during his last presidential bid. The meeting on Wednesday, which will be held in Washington, will focus on the treatment of women going forward, some invitees and people close to Mr. Sanders said Monday. Mr. Sanders’s campaign arm began reaching out to the former staff members to help make travel arrangements and intends to pay for air travel and hotel expenses, the people said. Mr. Sanders plans to attend a portion of the meeting. The steps Mr. Sanders and his supporters have taken over the last week underscore the sense of urgency the senator faces as he prepares for a likely 2020 campaign. Though he has not yet announced that he intends to run, he has told aides and advisers that a decision is coming soon. In the last two weeks, The New York Times and Politico have published reports with accounts of harassment and discrimination from former workers in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign. Mr. Sanders has twice apologized publicly to women who were mistreated, and promised to do better if he runs again. The allegations have also contributed to a shakeup of Mr. Sanders’s core group of advisers. Should he run again in 2020, three top aides from the 2016 campaign either will not return or will serve in different roles, according to people close to Mr. Sanders. One of those advisers is Jeff Weaver, his campaign manager, who has said he would not return in the same role if Mr. Sanders runs again. The meeting on Wednesday comes in response to a letter sent two weeks ago by more than two dozen people who worked on Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign, asking to meet with the senator and his leadership team to discuss issues of harassment. Mr. Sanders and his advisers have emphasized that his 2018 Senate campaign worked with outside experts and consultants to create and implement a new harassment policy and brought in an outside human resources firm for people to report instances of mistreatment. The meeting on Wednesday will be led by Jenny Yang and Pamela Coukos from Working IDEAL, a company that advises on workplace inclusion, fair pay and diversity. Thatmeeting follows a series of house parties across the country on Saturday in which loyal supporters urged Mr. Sanders to run; part of a live-stream presentation for the events focused on workplace conduct issues. Sheila Healy, who worked on Mr. Sanders’s re-election campaign for his Senate seat in Vermont last year, described steps his campaign had taken to make it more inclusive — including new human-resources policies that she said were posted on walls in all of the campaign’s offices. She reassured the live-stream viewers that these policies would be in place should he run again in 2020. Ms. Healy had been asked by a moderator to discuss the measures put in place in 2018 to ensure that people working on the campaign “felt welcome and empowered and respected” and what the implications would be for 2020. “In 2018 here in Vermont, Bernie’s campaign took some of the lessons that we learned from 2016 and used them to create new policies that were designed to ensure that accountability, respect and professionalism stay a part of our culture,” Ms. Healy said.   ", "id": "5c3cd6863a125f5075c04574", "date": "2019-01-14T18:35:45+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders, Once the Progressive Outlier, Joins a Crowded Presidential Field", "full_text": " Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent and 2016 Democratic primary runner-up whose populist agenda has helped push the party to the left, embarked on Tuesday on a second run for president, in a bid that will test whether he retains his anti-establishment appeal or loses ground to newer faces who have adopted many of his ideas. A professed democratic socialist whose calls for “Medicare for all,” a $15 minimum wage and tuition-free public colleges have become pillars of the party’s left wing, Mr. Sanders joins the race at a time when Republicans are trying to define the Democratic field and its ideas as out of the political mainstream. In Mr. Sanders, who has not joined the Democratic Party, Republicans have an easy target to try to make the face of the opposition. But Mr. Sanders, 77, starts with stronger support from small-dollar donors and liberal voters than most other candidates. And he is among the best-known Democrats in a crowded field, as well as one of the most outspoken against President Trump, whom he has repeatedly called a “pathological liar” and a “racist.” “During our 2016 campaign, when we brought forth our progressive agenda, we were told that our ideas were ‘radical’ and ‘extreme,’” Mr. Sanders said on Tuesday in an email to supporters. “Three years have come and gone. And, as result of millions of Americans standing up and fighting back, all of these policies and more are now supported by a majority of Americans.” [Update: Bernie Sanders accuses liberal think tank of smearing progressive candidates.] This time around, Mr. Sanders, enters the race at a far different electoral moment. Much of his populist agenda has been embraced by other Democrats, at a time when many voters are eager to elevate female and nonwhite standard bearers. He will no longer have the Clinton dynasty as a foil; instead, his competition will include progressives like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who has broadly supported many of the same economic positions for years. And he will face far more scrutiny than three years ago, when much of the news media and political class treated him as more of an outlier than as a genuine challenger for the nomination. Already, he has had to quell the unease about his campaign’s treatment of women that has been disclosed in recent weeks and prompted two public apologies. His stumbles on issues of race and identity continue to concern activists who fear he has learned little from his previous White House bid. Whether Mr. Sanders can break through in a crowded field of diverse candidates, many of whom champion the progressive message he made popular, could go a long way in determining the direction of the Democratic Party in the age of Trump. “A lot of people still believe that he is the one who can take Trump out,” said Yvette Simpson, chief executive of the political group Democracy for America. The question now, she said, is “how does he distinguish himself in that bigger field?” The Democratic presidential field is more crowded than usual. Here’s how it compares with past cycles. Republicans have seized on Mr. Sanders’s entrance, eager to ascribe the socialist label to all Democrats. Soon after his announcement, the Trump re-election campaign issued a statement denouncing “every” Democratic candidate for “embracing his brand of socialism.” The president said pointedly that Mr. Sanders “missed his time.” In an interview on “CBS This Morning,” Mr. Sanders did not shy away from calling himself a democratic socialist. Mr. Trump, Mr. Sanders said, is “going to say, ‘Bernie Sanders wants the United States to become Venezuela.’” “Bernie Sanders does not want to have the United States become the horrific economic situation that unfortunately exists in Venezuela right now,” he said. “What Bernie Sanders wants is to learn from countries around the world why other countries are doing a better job of dealing with income and wealth inequality than we are.” Mr. Sanders will start with several advantages, including the foundation of a 50-state organization; a massive lead among low-dollar donors that is roughly equivalent to the donor base of all the other Democratic hopefuls combined; and a cache of fervent, unwavering supporters who spent the day exulting in his decision to run. A coveted speaker, he can still electrify crowds in a way few politicians can. He enjoys wide name recognition, and several early polls had him running second behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. The strength of that donor list was quickly apparent: In the 12 hours after Mr. Sanders formally joined the race, his campaign said it had pulled in more than $4 million. [Check out the 2020 Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] And while rising stars like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley have siphoned some of his authority over the party’s progressive wing, Mr. Sanders still claims to have spawned a “political revolution” that, true revolution or not, has ignited a generation of young, socialist-leaning voters and reshaped the Democratic Party. He is also partly responsible for the party’s decision last year to overhaul its presidential nomination process, including sharply reducing the influence of superdelegates and increasing the transparency around debates — factors he felt greatly favored Hillary Clinton in 2016. Asked what would be different in 2020, Mr. Sanders replied bluntly: “We’re going to win.” “Bottom line,” he said, “it is absolutely imperative that Donald Trump be defeated.” Though he had harsh words for the president, he said he was fond of the five other senators who were running for the Democratic nomination. “They are in some cases my friends,” he said. Mr. Sanders did not immediately announce where he would campaign first. Faiz Shakir, the national political director at the A.C.L.U. and a former adviser to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the former majority leader, will serve as campaign manager. With his booming voice and familiar wide-armed grip at the lectern, Mr. Sanders has long positioned himself as a champion of the working class and a passionate opponent of Wall Street and the moneyed elite. His remarks often include diatribes against the millionaires and billionaires — one of his most common refrains is that the “three wealthiest people in America own more wealth than the bottom 50 percent” — as well as denunciations of “super PACs” and the influence of big money on politics. In particular, he has sharply criticized Amazon and Walmart over their wages and treatment of workers. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] In his email to supporters, as well as a campaign announcement video, Mr. Sanders laid out a litany of policy issues, familiar to anyone who has followed him: universal health care, tuition-free public college, women’s reproductive rights, lower prescription drug prices, criminal justice reform. “Our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interests that dominate our economic and political life,” he said. While some presidential candidates have avoided direct broadsides against President Trump, Mr. Sanders, ever combative, addressed his potential opponent head on. “We are running against a president who is a pathological liar, a fraud, a racist, a sexist, a xenophobe and someone who is undermining American democracy as he leads us in an authoritarian direction,” he said. Born in Brooklyn, with an accent to match, Mr. Sanders ran unsuccessfully in the 1970s for governor and United States senator in Vermont before being elected mayor of Burlington in 1981. For 16 years, he served as the only congressman in the state before he was elected to the Senate in 2006. Mr. Sanders has been a modest legislator and something of a lone wolf in Washington, promoting largely the same legislative agenda since his early days as a mayor. He voted against the Iraq War and, in 2008, was one of roughly two dozen senators to vote against the $700 billion bailout of big banks. While often viewed as a pesky left-wing gadfly, he is also known to reach across the aisle, working on legislation with Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Senator John McCain of Arizona, both Republicans. He has rationalized voting for the 1994 crime bill, now heavily criticized for some of its draconian provisions, by saying he had favored progressive parts of the bill, including the Violence Against Women Act, while strongly opposing measures that would lead to mass incarceration. Mr. Sanders is the longest-serving independent in congressional history, a point of pride for him but one of consternation and annoyance for some Democrats who are quick to suggest he does not have the party’s interests at heart. Some Democrats blame him for Mrs. Clinton’s loss in 2016, saying his anti-establishment rhetoric during his campaign inflamed divisions in the party that proved insurmountable. One 2016 issue that has resurfaced is his record on gun control, Democratic strategists have said, given the intensity of the debate around gun violence following recent mass shootings. In 2005, Mr. Sanders voted for a law that granted immunity to gun manufacturers and dealers from most liability lawsuits. Mr. Sanders has also been criticized for support he received from the N.R.A. when he was running for Congress in 1990, in part because he vowed not to support a bill that mandated a waiting period for handgun sales. Though his message is well worn, Mr. Sanders has indicated that he is trying to remedy weaknesses from his first presidential campaign, including his lack of support from black voters. In recent months, he has made a series of trips to the South, where in 2016 he drew less than 20 percent of the black vote. During the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, he made a swing through South Carolina — where black voters made up about 60 percent of the Democratic primary vote in 2016 — that included addressing supporters and students and speaking with lawmakers. He has also tried to shore up his foreign policy credentials, becoming a critic of the United States support of Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. Late last year, the Senate passed a resolution, which Mr. Sanders helped introduce, to end American military assistance for the kingdom’s war there. But he also continues to draw ire from critics who say that the way he talks about race and identity is out of step with the calls for diversity and change within the party. Almost immediately after making his announcement, Mr. Sanders was attacked for his response to a question on Vermont Public Radio about whether he thought he best represented the current Democratic Party. “We have got to look at candidates, you know, not by the color of their skin, not by their sexual orientation or their gender and not by their age,” Mr. Sanders said. “I think we have got to try to move us toward a nondiscriminatory society which looks at people based on their abilities, based on what they stand for.” Whether Mr. Sanders can secure the Democratic nomination may depend on his ability to change his timeworn message — and adapt to the demands and yearnings of a party that he helped shape. “Before 2016, nobody was really talking about universal health care and universal education as much as he was; he really brought that into the mainstream for a lot of people,” said Dave Degner, the chair of the Tama County Democratic Party in Iowa. “If he comes out saying the same things that he did before, it’s not new anymore.”   ", "id": "5c6beb683a125f5075c0a620", "date": "2019-02-19T11:39:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders, at Fox News Town Hall, Says His Wealth Isn’t the ‘American Dream’", "full_text": " Shortly after he disclosed his tax returns for the last 10 years, Senator Bernie Sanders on Monday rejected the idea that his newfound millionaire status was a testament to capitalism and the “American dream.” Appearing on Fox News in a town-hall style event, Mr. Sanders defended his wealth as the honestly earned result of a popular book that he wrote. “If anybody thinks I should apologize for writing a best-selling book,” he said, “I’m not going to do it.” But he did not directly answer the question, asked by an audience member, about whether he himself should pay more in taxes now that he is a member of the “1 percent,” from whom he has spent years calling for greater contributions. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Then Bret Baier, one of the Fox moderators, asked Mr. Sanders, “When you wrote the book and you made the money, isn’t that the definition of capitalism and the American dream?” “No,” Mr. Sanders replied. “I mean, you know, what we want is a country where everybody has opportunity. You know, I have a college degree. I’m a United States senator. But a lot of people don’t have a college degree. A lot of people are not United States senators. I want everybody in this country to be able to have health care, to have education, to, when they turn on the water, have drinkable water, not toxic water.” The candidates’ tax returns showed that they earned substantially more than a vast majority of American households. The message appeared to be that his financial success had been possible because he had systemic advantages that many other Americans did not. “So what we are fighting for, Bret,” he said, “is a society not where a just few people can make a whole lot of money, but a society where everybody in this country has the opportunity to live in security and dignity.” Mr. Sanders’s tax returns showed that he earned $561,293 last year and paid an effective tax rate of 26 percent. Last week, in an interview with The New York Times, the Vermont senator acknowledged that his book earnings had made him a millionaire. Mr. Sanders is the first Democratic candidate to appear on a 2020 town hall event on Fox News, known for conservative prime time hosts and their forceful defenses of President Trump. The Democratic National Committee has said it will not hold any 2020 debates on Fox, citing troubling ties between the network and the president. [Who’s running for president in 2020? Keep up with who’s in and who’s out with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders occasionally sparred with Mr. Baier and his co-host, Martha MacCallum, and at points was noticeably defensive, pushing back on questions. For instance, while he reiterated that wealthy people and corporations should pay more in taxes, “whether it’s me or you or anybody else,” he did not directly answer when asked whether he would personally be willing to pay a top marginal tax rate of 52 percent, as he proposed for high-income Americans during his 2016 campaign. Instead, in a tone of frustration if not outright agitation, he tried to turn the question on the moderators, saying Mr. Baier and Ms. MacCallum surely made more than he did. When the moderators noted that Mr. Sanders had benefited from the tax legislation that the Republican-controlled Congress passed in late 2017, he emphasized that he had voted against it. Mr. Sanders, who is Jewish and lost many family members in the Holocaust, also defended Representative Ilhan Omar, who has come under fierce attack from President Trump for her comments about 9/11 and Israel. Mr. Sanders said that while she perhaps needed to improve her communication with Jewish Americans, he did not believe she was anti-Semitic. “It is not anti-Semitic to be critical of a right-wing government in Israel,” he said to applause.   ", "id": "5cb520f749f0eacbf1f845e4", "date": "2019-04-16T00:23:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Notre-Dame, Bernie Sanders, Parkland: Your Tuesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. “We will rebuild Notre-Dame because that is what the French expect.” President Emmanuel Macron said he hoped the fire-ravaged cathedral could be rebuilt within five years. At least one expert said it could take three times that. Here’s our timeline of the blaze, and a collection of photos. More than $600 million has been committed for reconstruction, including $100,000 from the U.S. university Notre Dame. The giving spirit even prompted donations to three Louisiana churches that recently fell victim to arson. Our travel writers reflected on the Gothic jewel, and our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe examined what the fire revealed about the soul of France. _____ 2. House Democrats are increasingly wary of their embrace of Representative Ilhan Omar, above. There was a cautiousness in the Democratic pushback to President Trump’s attack against the freshman Democrat from Minnesota. Her support of the movement to boycott Israel and her own attacks on supporters of Israel have made her a complicated figure for some Democrats to defend. She isn’t the only lawmaker causing the party headaches: Internal opposition to Bernie Sanders has some warning of a Democratic schism. And we sorted through the Democratic presidential candidates’ campaign finance filings. Here’s where they stand. _____ 3. Also out of Washington: David Bernhardt, the newly installed Interior Secretary, is under investigation by the department’s internal watchdog over ethics complaints. Lawmakers and government ethics watchdog groups have requested that formal investigations be opened into various aspects of Mr. Bernhardt’s conduct, including questions about his lobbying ties. And Gina Haspel, the C.I.A. director, has proved to be an adept tactician in dealing with the president, though there is little evidence he has heeded her. She’s speaking at Auburn University on Thursday. _____ 4. Travel the country. Talk to people. Assume nothing. Don’t rely on Twitter. That was the advice political journalists offered one another last week on covering the upcoming presidential race. Convened by the strategist David Axelrod, above far right, they gathered at Google’s offices in Chicago to discuss the mistakes of 2016 and how to avoid them the next time around. The ideas that emerged from the panels were so basic to the practice of reporting that they often get ignored, our media reporter found. Here is what’s on the minds of leading journalists as the 2020 race begins. _____ 5. Can Nissan and Renault save their alliance? With their former leader, Carlos Ghosn, in a Tokyo jail, the union he stitched together seems to be teetering on the edge. Above, Mr. Ghosn released a video this month. In recent weeks, Renault has scrambled to keep its Japanese partner happy. It created a new leadership board that gives Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors equal weight, and has largely let Nissan dismantle the power structures that they say Mr. Ghosn put in place. (Our Tokyo bureau chief talked about the rise and fall of Mr. Ghosn on “The Daily.”) But there’s still one source of tension: The French automaker’s outsize stake in a more successful Nissan. _____ 6. BRCA gene mutations,  linked to a high risk of inherited breast cancer, may often go undetected by a popular genetic testing company. 23andMe’s test focused on just a few BRCA variants, missing nearly 90 percent of people with related mutations, a study found. The company, which has 10 million customers, says the criticism is overblown. “The F.D.A. should not have permitted this out-of-date approach to be used for medical purposes,” said a professor who helped discover BRCA1. “Misleading, falsely reassuring results from their incomplete testing can cost women’s lives.” _____ 7. We surprised ourselves. We built a legal facial recognition for $60. The Times ran publicly available images of people who work near a New York City park and a day’s worth of surveillance camera footage through a commercially available facial recognition service. It cost less than $100 and was all completely legal. We’ve deleted the data, but the experiment, part of our Privacy Project, highlights just how easy it is to track people without their knowledge. _____ 8. The Golden State Warriors had a 31-point lead over the Los Angeles Clippers on Monday night. And then came Lou Williams. The guard led the Clippers to a 135-131 win, collecting 36 points and 11 assists. It was the biggest comeback in N.B.A. playoff history. He carries himself with a brand of quiet composure, our basketball reporter writes, that has a power all its own. From professional to college basketball: The N.C.A.A. will vote on a rule change that would restrict early recruiting. _____ 9. The roller coaster career of the chef Kwame Onwuachi is not over yet. He went from a struggling childhood in the Bronx to an overnight success in Washington, only to have his fancy restaurant close after 11 weeks. He thought that was it. Now he’s drawing attention with a new book and approach, and finally getting the accolades he once sought. And as Passover approaches, our food reporter examines a new book that tackles a timely argument starter: What qualifies as a Jewish food? _____ 10. Finally, a nod to young journalists. Yesterday, we told you about this year’s Pulitzer Prize winners. Today, we’re highlighting a runner-up: The Eagle Eye, the newspaper at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., for the students’ coverage of the mass shooting of their classmates. It was the first publication named during the awards ceremony. “These budding journalists remind us of the media’s unwavering commitment to bearing witness, even in the most wrenching of circumstances, in service to a nation whose very existence depends on a free and dedicated press,” Dana Canedy, the awards administrator, said. “There is hope in their example.” Have an uplifting night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cb652bc49f0eacbf1f84b35", "date": "2019-04-16T22:08:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Stumbled With Black Voters in 2016. Can He Do Better in 2020?", "full_text": " Shortly after Senator Bernie Sanders suffered a crushing loss in South Carolina’s Democratic primary in 2016, his campaign’s African-American outreach team sent a memo to top campaign leaders with an urgent warning. “The margin by which we lost the African-American vote has got to be — at the very least — cut in half or there simply is no path to victory,” the team wrote in the memo, which was reviewed by The New York Times. Mr. Sanders had won 14 percent of the black vote there compared with 86 percent for Hillary Clinton, according to exit polls. Over seven pages, the team outlined a strategy for winning black voters that included using social media influencers and having Mr. Sanders give a major speech on discrimination in a city like St. Louis or Cincinnati. Mr. Sanders’s inner circle did not respond. In a campaign in which Mr. Sanders badly needed his message against inequality to catch fire with black voters, the senator from Vermont and his senior leaders struggled to prioritize and execute a winning plan to build their support. Top aides lost faith in their African-American outreach organizers, whose leadership was replaced and whose team members were scattered across the country. Initiatives like a tour of historically black colleges and universities fizzled; Mr. Sanders even missed its kickoff event. As Mr. Sanders prepares to announce another run for the White House as early as this week, his weak track record with black voters — a vital base in the Democratic Party — could be a potential threat to his candidacy. And his campaign’s experience in 2016, as described in interviews with nearly two dozen current and former advisers and staff members, reveals a strikingly uneven commitment on the part of Mr. Sanders and his top advisers to organize and communicate effectively with black voters and leaders. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] For 2016, Mr. Sanders initially put together an all-white leadership team and campaigned heavily in predominantly white states like Iowa and New Hampshire, which vote early in the nomination process. The relationship between his inner circle and his black staff members frayed, and it is unclear if top Sanders aides were aware of the damage until it was too late. As the primary season unfolded, Mrs. Clinton dealt Mr. Sanders a series of stinging defeats in Southern states with high black turnout, while African-American leaders repeatedly criticized the Sanders campaign for failing to understand the concerns and priorities of their constituents. This year, Mr. Sanders is already dealing with another thorny problem involving his 2016 staff: allegations from women who say they were mistreated or harassed during the campaign. Last month, after The Times published an investigation into complaints by female staff members, Mr. Sanders publicly apologized. The two issues could make Mr. Sanders vulnerable in a crowded and diverse Democratic primary field that includes several female and minority candidates. Advisers to the senator maintain that the African-American outreach team had plenty of resources and was a victim of its own inefficiency. “The black people had the largest team — the Latino outreach team didn’t even have that many people,” said Symone Sanders, who took over black outreach efforts after the South Carolina primary. “And then what did they do with the resources? They squandered it.” Dissatisfaction among black staff members on the 2016 campaign was reported at the time, including by Fusion. But fresh interviews show that many former black employees still feel frustrated that they were not taken seriously or provided with the resources they needed to succeed — even though some continue to admire Mr. Sanders. “It’s almost like they didn’t need us for anything,” said John Solomon, who was hired as an organizer but soon became disillusioned when campaign aides assigned him to drive people around Iowa in a truck. “It was kind of like, you have black staff just to say you have black staff.” This tension spilled over into other areas of the campaign, particularly among local staff members in South Carolina, who worked closely with the African-American outreach team. Some black campaign workers described microaggressions — subtle interactions that, while not overtly discriminatory, still played on racial prejudice. One woman said her boss almost never spoke to her. [Who’s in, who’s out: Keep up with the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders appears committed to strengthening ties with the black community since his loss to Mrs. Clinton. He has made multiple trips to the South, and last month he spent Martin Luther King’s Birthday in South Carolina, where he spoke at the Capitol and met with black leaders, elected officials and students. At the same time, the senator’s advisers are conscious that any future presidential campaign would need a much more diverse staff, especially in its upper ranks. Last month, Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s former campaign manager and currently a senior adviser, acknowledged to The Times that the 2016 staff had been “too male” and “too white.” Mr. Weaver declined to comment for this article. Friends of Bernie Sanders, the senator’s campaign committee, said in a statement that Mr. Sanders “remains committed to diversity and inclusion in the workplace, politics and in policy.” The group also said it was having conversations and conducting training with human resources consultants and current and former staff members “with the goal of safe, inclusive and equitable policies that reflect the work and values of Senator Sanders.” In any political campaign, the internal competition for resources can be fierce, and getting the ear of the candidate’s top aides is difficult. In 2016, this frustration was particularly acute for those working on Mr. Sanders’s African-American outreach efforts. Many had joined with the goal of bringing the candidate’s populist message into black communities. Danny Glover, a liaison to historically black colleges, introduced a tour he believed could solidify support from young black voters. But Mr. Sanders did not attend the kickoff event at South Carolina State University, and the campaign often sent surrogates rather than the senator himself. The budget for the tour was soon cut, Mr. Glover said, and the events that were held were scaled back. “It was kind of disappointing,” Mr. Glover said, adding, “I just think back to the opportunities we left on the field for lack of investment into it.” The senator’s campaign committee said that Mr. Sanders “deeply cares about H.B.C.U.s” and that the United Negro College Fund planned to honor him next month. Other staff members shared similar accounts of disappointment. When Mr. Solomon joined the campaign in late 2015, he was told his job would include networking with black voters and planning events in black communities. But almost immediately he was assigned tasks like keeping itineraries and chauffeuring surrogates that had little to do with outreach — which made him feel like “support staff,” he said. Roy Tatem, the deputy director of the outreach team, said that higher-ranking aides, including Mr. Weaver, rarely interacted with the group as a whole and that there was a constant push and pull for resources. Mr. Sanders’s “heart has been consistently in the right place,” Mr. Tatem said. But he added that over time campaign leaders deprioritized black voters, especially after the South Carolina primary defeat. “The narrative became ‘Bernie cannot win black voters,’” he said. After South Carolina, Symone Sanders, who is black (and is not related to the senator), was put in charge of winning over black voters. She said she knew that the outreach team was frustrated but added that “a large part of it is a lack of understanding for what the process and protocols should have been.” She said the loss in South Carolina was partly because the campaign got there too late to overcome Mrs. Clinton’s built-in advantage, reflecting an overall disorganization. But she also said the outreach team did not adequately support on-the-ground workers there. “They did not deliver,” she said in an interview. Top aides said the campaign invested heavily in the outreach team, including giving it its own office in Atlanta. “The individual roles of African-American outreach staff members changed as the campaign grew and the calendar progressed, as they did in every department,” the senator’s campaign committee said. Advisers to Mr. Sanders say he is committed to having a more diverse campaign staff should he run again, and there have been signs he is trying to build his relationship with the black community. During his trip to South Carolina last month, he spoke to students at Benedict College, a historically black college, and met with clergy members and members of the state’s legislative black caucus. Representative James Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House, was with Mr. Sanders on Martin Luther King’s Birthday and said the tone of the senator’s speech was different from that of his past speeches. “In South Carolina before, his speeches did not lend themselves to being embraced by the African-American community,” Mr. Clyburn said. Mr. Sanders’s recent speech, in which he called President Trump a racist, “showed much more sensitivity to the dreams and aspirations of African-Americans than his speeches did in 2016,” Mr. Clyburn said. Separately, Mr. Sanders has been reaching out to black leaders — including Chokwe Antar Lumumba, the mayor of Jackson, Miss., and Derrick Johnson, the president of the N.A.A.C.P. — to discuss issues that affect black communities, like economic justice and voter suppression. But he has had some missteps, too. Some critics cited recent remarks he made suggesting that white voters who were uncomfortable voting for black candidates were “not necessarily racist.” Others said his decision to deliver his own rebuttal to the State of the Union address was disrespectful to Stacey Abrams, a rising Democratic star and the first black woman chosen to give the official response. Many former staff members said that above all, if Mr. Sanders runs in 2020, they wanted to see the makeup of his campaign staff — and whether people of color are empowered — before they were willing to assess his progress. “He can start with the hiring process,” Mr. Glover, the college tour organizer, said. “Those first hires are going to let a lot of us know if he learned from the 2016 cycle.” Doris Burke and Kitty Bennett contributed research.    ", "id": "5c69ada23a125f5075c0a2bb", "date": "2019-02-17T18:51:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Is Making Changes for 2020, but His Desire for Control Remains", "full_text": " He will be talking about himself — at least if his advisers have their way. His top aides are not just white men. And unlike last time, when he enjoyed playing the insurgent foil to an establishment-backed politician, Senator Bernie Sanders is now eagerly projecting himself as the front-runner. In 2016, Mr. Sanders had little choice but to run the race of an outsider — disorganized, decentralized and improvisational. But as the Vermont senator formally kicks off his second presidential bid with an appearance in his native Brooklyn on Saturday, this much is apparent: He is at least attempting to mount a different kind of campaign. Yet even as he builds a more sophisticated and modern organization, Mr. Sanders’s iconoclasm and possessiveness over his brand of democratic socialism has created turmoil in his own ranks. His media consulting team abruptly quit this week after the senator and his wife, Jane, expressed displeasure with the sleek announcement ad the advisers produced, deeming it inauthentic, and instead booked a Vermont studio to record a no-frills, nearly 11-minute video that Mr. Sanders wrote himself, according to multiple Democratic officials familiar with the matter. The clash was a reminder that Mr. Sanders, dating to his first campaigns for office in Burlington, Vt., has always charted his own political course. But in interviews over the last week, his aides and advisers said the 77-year-old Independent has consented to some strategic changes as he tries to win over a party that in the Trump era is not singularly focused on economic inequality. His campaign aims to capitalize on the elements that made Mr. Sanders a phenomenon in 2016 — big crowds, a small-dollar fund-raising army — but also to more visibly match an electoral moment defined by inclusion, identity and issues related to both. A central part of the plan, aides and advisers said, involves persuading Mr. Sanders to reveal more of his personal story, starting with the rally in Brooklyn, near the rent-controlled apartment where he grew up, the son of a Jewish immigrant, and on Sunday in Chicago, where he went to college and joined civil rights protests. The rallies, those close to Mr. Sanders hope, will allow him to showcase his upbringing — something he has long resisted — in the context of how it has shaped the policy issues voters now know so well, injecting freshness to his by-now familiar message and providing voters a new window into who he is and what he represents. “That has not been his practice in the past — he is much more focused on the ideas and the policies he advocates,” Jeff Weaver, who was Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager and is still his closest adviser, said in an interview. “But when you are running for president, you are not just electing a pile of policy papers.” [Who’s in, who’s out, who’s still thinking. Check out our presidential candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders’s strategists are keenly aware that the early stages of his run could offer him the best opportunity to shore up supporters and quickly establish him as the candidate to beat. The new approach could also help him compete with opponents like Senator Kamala Harris and Senator Elizabeth Warren, who have both made their origin stories a key part of their message. And it could satisfy voters who crave a deeper connection to their officials. Other changes are also underway on the campaign. Following pledges from advisers to ensure a more diverse staff than in 2016, particularly in its upper ranks, Mr. Sanders hired a new campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, the former A.C.L.U. political director and the first Muslim to ever run a presidential campaign, as well as a new political director, Analilia Mejia, a progressive activist. The campaign also said it had brought on a diverse group of new co-chairs, including Nina Turner, the president of the Sanders-aligned group Our Revolution, and Carmen Yulín Cruz, the mayor of San Juan. “One of the biggest differences,” said Chuck Rocha, a senior adviser to Mr. Sanders, “is we’re being very determinative about making sure that this campaign reflects the face of America and the fabric of our country.” But just days into Mr. Sanders’s second run, his contempt for mainstream party politics and tactics obscured a rollout that brought him $10 million in the first week of the campaign. Last Monday, the day before he began his candidacy, Mr. Sanders arrived at a Burlington studio with a script for the announcement he had crafted himself that reflected his longstanding stump speech. “Our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interests that dominate our economic and political life,” he said, speaking in front of a screen with an image of a superimposed bookcase. Mark Longabaugh, Julian Mulvey and Tad Devine — Mr. Sanders’s media consultants and three of his top advisers from the 2016 race — were informed only at the last minute of the change of plans and they were enraged, according to Democrats directly familiar with the episode. They had produced a much shorter video with higher production value. But Mr. Sanders and his wife did not like how he appeared in the video and were uneasy with some of the content that did not feel true to his unvarnished message, these Democrats said. The Sanders’s instincts served them well, at least in terms of how the spot would be received by his supporters: A blast email on the day of his announcement with the text from the do-it-yourself ad drew an enthusiastic response. Even though there was no direct fund-raising request in the ad, it helped Mr. Sanders raise a record $6 million in the first day of his campaign. But it marked a humiliation for his consultants, who quit after concluding that Mr. Sanders was not willing to empower them. It is not clear how much Mr. Sanders will ultimately bend to the wishes of his current advisers. But his new team sees enormous opportunity in his twin rallies this weekend — platforms to showcase big, diverse crowds of supporters, which could address questions that have dogged him since 2016 about his appeal to nonwhites. And though his rally in Brooklyn will be something of a homecoming, it is also a chance for him to make an aggressive play for young, white urbanites at the same time that another one of their favorites, Beto O’Rourke, is expected to enter the race. Even so much as acknowledging his biography would be a change for a senator who has long rejected sharing anything about his life. But his advisers are betting it could help set him apart from a crowded field of candidates, many of whom support the same policies that had made him unique in 2016. At his Brooklyn rally, Mr. Sanders is expected to at least nod to the years when he played stickball in the street and arguments between his parents over money were commonplace. In Chicago, his advisers hope he will talk about his civil rights activism there, including how he was arrested during a protest on the South Side. But above all, the rallies will test just how much Mr. Sanders, whose message has largely remained the same throughout his political career, is willing to evolve, if at all. Those closest to the senator acknowledge that he is unlikely to change, even as he recognizes the importance of sharing his personal story. “As he sees it, his importance is his policies — what he sees can happen in America that is drastically better and different from what has been,” Larry Sanders, his older brother, said in a phone interview this week. “That’s his central focus.” The elder Mr. Sanders, who now lives in Oxford, England, recalled pieces of his brother’s life that might resonate with voters. Summers at the Ten Mile River scout camp outside the city. Sunday morning bagels and lox. “I’ve always been convinced,” he said, “that there is a tremendous amount of Brooklyn in Bernard.” Some who know Mr. Sanders remain unconvinced he will emphasize his biography this weekend, despite the settings. Mr. Sanders’s ties to the borough since leaving it after one year at Brooklyn College are somewhat tenuous. Though his accent betrays his origins, he has spent his entire political career in Vermont, whose winter climate he often recalls on the campaign trail. Even if Mr. Sanders does talk more about himself, his competition presents a new set of challenges that his own biography may only compound. “At the end of the day, he is still an old white man,” said Tracy Sefl, a veteran Democratic strategist and formerly a senior adviser to the super PAC Ready for Hillary. “So there are lots of other things that he wants to talk about besides those parts of his identity.” Kitty Bennett contributed research.    ", "id": "5c798b9e49f0eacbf105aed6", "date": "2019-03-01T19:43:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Raises $6 Million After Announcing Presidential Bid", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Just over 24 hours after announcing his presidential bid, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has already raised $6 million from more than 225,000 donors, his campaign said Wednesday morning. That amount far surpasses what any of his rivals have disclosed raising after their own announcements this year. Previously, Senator Kamala Harris of California had claimed the biggest early fund-raising haul that had been made public, with $1.5 million in 24 hours. In comparison, Mr. Sanders’s campaign said its fund-raising in the first 24 hours came to $5.9 million. Later Wednesday, President Trump’s campaign cited Mr. Sanders’s windfall in its own fund-raising pitch, sending a text message to supporters telling them about the $6 million that “Socialist Bernie” had raised. “Now I’m calling on you to CRUSH that number,” the message said. Mr. Sanders’s early fund-raising success is not unexpected: After all, he raised well over $200 million when he ran against Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in the 2016 election, and his list of online donors dwarfs those of his Democratic rivals. [Where does Bernie Sanders stand on key issues? Here’s a refresher.] But in a crowded presidential field, where candidates are eager to demonstrate the enthusiasm behind their campaigns, early fund-raising hauls offer bragging rights, at least for a moment. A recent New York Times analysis found that Mr. Sanders began his 2020 candidacy with about 2.1 million online donors who had given him money over the last six years, an enormous lead among proven contributors that is roughly equivalent to the donor base of all the other Democratic hopefuls combined. Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who ran unsuccessfully for Senate last year, has twice as many online donors as anyone running or considering running besides Mr. Sanders. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Ms. Harris each had drawn money from at least 230,000 online donors ahead of their candidacies. A more complete view of the candidates’ fund-raising will eventually be available through the Federal Election Commission. Several well-known Democratic candidates have not released early fund-raising totals, including Ms. Warren, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. Still, based on what has been made public so far, here is a guide to who can claim those bragging rights. Mr. Sanders surpassed not only his rivals, but also his own performance when he announced his 2016 candidacy. At the time, his campaign said it collected more than $1.5 million online from 35,000 donors in the first 24 hours. While Mr. Sanders can boast of his early fund-raising success, the donor list he developed in the 2016 campaign is an enormous advantage that none of the other declared Democratic candidates can match. The Sanders campaign said on Wednesday that its average donation mirrored the $27 average from the 2016 campaign. Mr. Sanders received $600,000 in donations that will recur monthly, his campaign said. Before Mr. Sanders released his numbers, Ms. Harris had the most impressive fund-raising performance known in the primary so far. Her campaign said it raised $1.5 million online from more than 38,000 donors in the 24 hours after she announced her candidacy in January. The average online donation was $37, her campaign said. This is where the comparisons start to get a little tricky. Ms. Klobuchar’s campaign said it raised over $1 million “from online and grass-roots supporters” in the first 48 hours of her presidential bid. But the campaign did not say how many people had donated during that period, so it is not possible to estimate the size of her average donation. Ms. Warren announced an exploratory committee for president on Dec. 31. That day, she raised about $300,000 from just over 8,000 donations through the online donation-processing platform ActBlue, according to Federal Election Commission records. Those numbers work out to an average contribution of about $37. Ms. Warren formally announced her presidential bid earlier this month, but her campaign did not release information on its fund-raising after that announcement. An earlier version of a chart with this article incorrectly described the candidacies of Bernie Sanders and Amy Klobuchar. They both have announced they are running. They are no longer potential candidates. Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan. Rachel Shorey contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c6d63e63a125f5075c0a994", "date": "2019-02-20T14:26:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Architects of Bernie Sanders’s 2016 Race Part Ways With 2020 Campaign", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The architects of the 2016 insurgent campaign for Senator Bernie Sanders abruptly parted ways with his 2020 campaign on Tuesday, dealing him a surprise blow one week after he entered the presidential race with an emphatic show of fund-raising strength. The consultants, Tad Devine, Julian Mulvey and Mark Longabaugh, said in a statement that they were “leaving because we believe that Senator Sanders deserves to have media consultants who share his creative vision for the campaign.” Their decision was unexpected: The three produced the announcement video that Mr. Sanders released last week, which has helped him raise $10 million, and they had been intimately involved in the planning of a second White House bid for the Vermont senator. The rupture infuriated some of Mr. Sanders’s supporters, who feared it would detract from a stunning financial haul that they had hoped would quiet the doubters about a second Sanders candidacy. The shake-up was also the latest indication that Mr. Sanders is going to run a different kind of race this time around — or at least, that his advisers want him to do so. In a brief interview, Mr. Longabaugh said he and his partners, who produced some of Mr. Sanders’s most memorable 2016 ads, had strategic differences with the senator and his wife, Jane, who is his closest adviser. “We came to realize this was just not going to work,” he said, noting that the disagreements “built over time.” Mr. Longabaugh, who said he told Mr. Sanders this morning of the decision, would not specify the nature of the disagreements. But after running a highly improvisational campaign against Hillary Clinton, Mr. Sanders has been taking steps toward a more sophisticated and modern race this time. The current team said Mr. Sanders was concerned about spending too much money on television ads. And the campaign officials indicated they would devote far more time and attention to building up a national organization, as well as ones in early nominating states, and would pour money into digital organizing efforts. Mr. Sanders has also hired a new campaign manager, Faiz Shakir, the former A.C.L.U. political director, and the three consultants had little say in the decision to replace his 2016 manager, Jeff Weaver. Mr. Shakir, who did not know that the strategists were planning to quit, had not even yet met with them. Mr. Sanders’s new team said little about the surprise exit of the consultants’ firm, known as Devine, Mulvey and Longabaugh. “The campaign appreciates all the good work DML has done and wishes them well,” said Mr. Shakir in a statement. Privately, Mr. Sanders’s supporters were irritated and suggested the consultants walked away because they were not going to have the same influence as they did four years ago. Mr. Longabaugh dismissed that claim, noting that advertising firms are by their nature central to modern campaigns and that Mr. Sanders would inevitably have come to rely on their long experience in Democratic politics. The senator clashed at times with his consulting team in 2016 — particularly Mr. Devine, and particularly at the end of the race when it was clear that Mr. Sanders could not win the nomination — but Mr. Mulvey and Mr. Longabaugh had been expected to play central roles in 2020. For months, they had been making the case that Mr. Sanders should not be underestimated. But on Tuesday, Mr. Longabaugh would not rule out the firm working for another Democratic candidate. “We haven’t talked about that so I’m not going to comment,” he said. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Sanders, who struggled to win African-Americans voters, has made clear that he wanted a more diverse array of campaign advisers after largely surrounding himself with white men in 2016. The three consultants departing are all white, while Mr. Shakir will be the first Muslim in American history to run a presidential campaign. And Mr. Sanders will hold a series of rallies this weekend that nod to his biography — a marked contrast to his 2016 campaign, when he eschewed talking about himself and relentlessly focused on his progressive policy agenda. He is appearing in Brooklyn, where he was born, and in Chicago, where he went to college and joined civil rights protests. The weekend tour will include a stop in Selma, Ala., for events marking the anniversary of Bloody Sunday there. And while he may have a different group of advisers for this campaign, Mr. Sanders clearly retains the same grass-roots appeal: On his first day as a presidential candidate, he raised nearly $6 million, and on Monday, six days after he joined the 2020 race, campaign officials said he had secured $10 million from 359,914 donors.   ", "id": "5c75947d49f0eacbf105a46e", "date": "2019-02-26T19:31:47+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Apologizes Again to Women Who Were Mistreated in 2016 Campaign", "full_text": " For a second time in eight days, Senator Bernie Sanders apologized to women on his 2016 presidential campaign, as he seeks to put behind him a series of damaging reports about the mistreatment of female staff members that threatens to undercut another likely White House bid. A political housecleaning appeared underway as well in the Sanders camp: Three top advisers from the 2016 campaign either will not return if Mr. Sanders runs in 2020 or will serve in different roles, according to people close to Mr. Sanders. One of those 2016 advisers, Rich Pelletier, who served as national field director and deputy campaign manager, was let go Thursday from the main volunteer effort trying to draft Mr. Sanders to run in 2020 after The Times reported on accounts that he mishandled concerns about allegations of mistreatment. Mr. Sanders’s two apologies follow several recent articles describing harassment, sexism and gender discrimination in his 2016 campaign, including a report last week in The Times and another on Wednesday night in Politico. Several of his top aides and advisers have been implicated; Jeff Weaver, his campaign manager, has said he would not return in the same role if the Vermont senator runs again. “It appears that as part of our campaign, there were some women who were harassed and mistreated — I thank them from the bottom of my heart for speaking out,” Mr. Sanders said during a scheduled news conference on Thursday about prescription drugs. “What they experienced was absolutely unacceptable and certainly not what a progressive campaign or any campaign should be about.” “When we talk about — and I do all the time — ending sexism and all forms of discrimination, those beliefs cannot just be words. They must be based in day-to-day reality and the work we do, and that was clearly not the case in the 2016 campaign,” he added. Some campaign alumni have requested a meeting with the senator and his campaign leadership team to discuss the treatment of women going forward, with some delegates suggesting he should not run again until he addresses the issue of sexism in his campaign. In a statement posted on Twitter shortly after Thursday’s news conference, Mr. Sanders said: “Clearly we need a cultural revolution in this country to change workplace attitudes and behavior. I intend in every way to be actively involved in that process.” Though Mr. Sanders has not yet announced he is running for president, allegations of harassment, sexism and gender discrimination that have emerged in recent weeks have already threatened to impede a potential 2020 bid. The 2016 runner-up is especially vulnerable on gender-related issues because so many of his top aides were men and some of his most outspoken supporters, derided as “Bernie Bros” by supporters of Hillary Clinton, were often caustic and sexist in their criticism of the Democratic Party’s eventual nominee. The issue is just as acute because of President Trump’s widely criticized derogatory comments about women and the number of female candidates who could also join the 2020 race. Indeed, the reports about sexism in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign have come as his friend and colleague, Senator Elizabeth Warren, has entered the race with the sort of assault on corporate interests and big money in politics that could appeal to Mr. Sanders’s enthusiasts. In the Times article, former staff members described in on-the-record interviews their experiences with sexism, including harassment and pay inequity. They portrayed the insurgent 2016 campaign as disorganized and decentralized, making it hard to report mistreatment. In an interview on CNN last week following the Times report, Mr. Sanders said he was proud of his 2016 campaign and attributed any missteps with staff members to the explosive growth that was sometimes overwhelming. “I certainly apologize to any woman who felt she was not treated appropriately, and of course if I run we will do better the next time,” he said. The group “Organizing for Bernie” said on Thursday that Mr. Pelletier, who was a leader of group, was no longer part of it “in part due to concerns raised about personnel management related to his employment at Bernie 2016.” As Mr. Sanders considers his next steps, he has faced criticism for seemingly surrounding himself with many of the same people who worked on his last campaign, stoking anxiety that little would change should he run again. He still retains some of his support from the last campaign. But with some Democrats who supported him out of antipathy to Mrs. Clinton already drifting away, he can scarcely afford to lose more voters in the lead up to the primary. Mr. Sanders — who is loath to drift from his unrelenting focus on policy issues and for years has grumbled about the press’s focus on what he calls “political gossip” — plainly recognizes that he must show contrition for what took place in 2016. What is less clear is whether he is prepared to take any more steps to comprehensively address the conduct on his campaign. Both of his statements of apology came in response to media questions following detailed articles, and he has done little else to defuse the criticism arising from the issue. And when asked if he knew about the complaints in the interview with CNN last week, he said, “I was a little bit busy running around the country trying to make the case” — a curt response that was widely viewed as tone deaf to a sensitive issue. Mr. Sanders’s supporters are somewhat torn, not wanting to be seen as tolerating sexual misconduct but also deeply angry about what they see as unfair treatment of the senator by the news media and mainstream Democrats. Nomiki Konst, one of the most committed 2016 Sanders surrogates who is now running for Public Advocate in New York, said any claims of sexual harassment should be “dealt with immediately” and noted that “it always helps to have more women in leadership.” But Ms. Konst also pointed out that former male aides to Mrs. Clinton and Senator Kamala Harris of California had also been accused of sexual misbehavior, and complained bitterly about what she called “the Bernie Bro smears” that erased Mr. Sanders’s female supporters. “#Metoo is not a political weapon,” she said. “When we start to use the #metoo movement as a political weapon it starts to weaken it.” Catie Edmondson contributed reporting from Washington, D.C.   ", "id": "5c3792c73a125f5075c03c69", "date": "2019-01-10T18:45:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Begins 2020 Race With Some Familiar Themes and a New One: Himself", "full_text": " Many of the words Senator Bernie Sanders used in Brooklyn on Saturday as he kicked off his second run for president were familiar: “revolution,” “economic justice,” “prison-industrial complex.” But one word was not: “I.” “I was born literally a few miles away from here,” he told the crowd. “I lived in a three-and-a-half-room rent-controlled apartment,” he thundered. “I was educated proudly in high-quality public schools,” he said. During his last presidential campaign, and throughout his political career, Mr. Sanders has offered a policy-focused message almost entirely devoid of personal details. At Saturday’s rally, however, he did something new: He talked about himself. “I know where I came from!” he shouted as his supporters roared. “And that is something I will never forget.” It was a drastic shift for Mr. Sanders, 77, and part of a broader campaign strategy that is centered in part on persuading the Vermont senator to reveal more of his personal story. His advisers are hoping that in telling voters more about himself, as he did at the rally on the Brooklyn College campus and as he planned to do on Sunday in Chicago, Mr. Sanders will offer voters not just his now-familiar policy positions but also a glimpse into the upbringing that shaped them. And they are hoping in particular to draw a contrast between Mr. Sanders — who grew up the son of a Jewish immigrant who sold paint to hardware stores — and another native New Yorker, President Trump. [Who’s in, who’s out, who’s still thinking: Check out our presidential candidate tracker.] Beneath an overcast sky, as clumps of fresh snow fell from trees behind him, Mr. Sanders regaled enthusiastic supporters, who had jammed into every corner of the campus’s main quad, with largely familiar advocacy for “Medicare for all,” a $15 minimum wage and tuition-free public college. By no means did he shy away from his favorite criticisms of billionaires, big corporations and Mr. Trump. He denounced Amazon, Netflix and General Motors. But it was his personal story — against the backdrop of a snow-covered college campus — that drew the loudest cheers. “Let me say a few personal words,” he said. “As we launch this campaign for president, you deserve to know where I came from.” He talked about his father, who immigrated to the United States from Poland at age 17 and whose family “was wiped out by Hitler and Nazi barbarism.” He spoke of his mother, who died young but had dreamed that her family would move out of their apartment to “a home of our own.” “I am not going to tell you that I grew up in a home of desperate poverty,” he said. “That would not be true. But what I will tell you is that coming from a lower-middle-class family, I will never forget how money — or, really, lack of money — was always a point of stress in our family.” He also drew direct comparisons between his own early life and Mr. Trump’s. “I did not have a father who gave me millions of dollars to build luxury skyscrapers, casinos and country clubs,” he said at one point. “I did not come from a family of privilege that prepared me to entertain people on television by telling workers, ‘You’re fired,’” he boomed at another. At the same time as Mr. Sanders’s rally, Mr. Trump spoke for more than two hours at the Conservative Political Action Conference, a gathering of activists just outside Washington. The president attacked Democrats as socialists, denounced a “Green New Deal” and warned about a government takeover of health care. Mr. Trump did not mention Mr. Sanders, but he predicted that Democrats would lose in 2020 because, he said, they are running on a socialist platform that will turn off most American voters. Mr. Sanders has placed second in the 2020 Democratic race in most public opinion polls, behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. But if his rollout has not been seamless — three of his top consultants abruptly parted ways with his campaign just days after he announced he was entering the race — he has also demonstrated the power of the grass-roots movement he began building three years ago. In the first week of his candidacy, his campaign took in $10 million, and in a New Hampshire poll released this week, Mr. Sanders was the top choice. As Mr. Sanders concluded his rally, his campaign announced that he would visit Iowa next week, with stops in Council Bluffs, Iowa City and Des Moines. His campaign has also said he would visit other early-nominating states in the coming weeks, including New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. Many supporters at the rally, a good number of whom were students, said that they had long been fans of Mr. Sanders and that they were excited to see him run for president a second time. “Last election, we supported Bernie,” said Isabel Saffioti, 15. “We want to come out and support him again.” Standing beside her was her sister, Carmen, 19, a student at Brooklyn College, who said she was thrilled the senator had decided to start his campaign there. “I think it would be cool if he talked more about his roots,” she said. Chris Huth, 19, said he liked Mr. Sanders because “he’s human.” But he also said that, though he supported the policies of “leftist people” like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, he had not decided yet whether he would vote for Mr. Sanders. “It’s still the beginning,” he said. “We’ll see.” For the most part, the crowd was lively despite the chill. Before the rally, a snowman in a Bernie T-shirt became a popular photo companion. Speakers offered a playlist of songs with a theme of change: “Uprising” by Muse, “Revolution” by Flogging Molly. But even as Mr. Sanders seemed ready to present more of himself to voters, some supporters suggested it was his unwavering commitment to policy that most endeared him to them. “He’s been consistent since Day 1,” said Katie McCrudden, 23, who left her home in New Jersey at 7:30 a.m. to get to the rally in time. “His politics have not changed.” Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5c7af44949f0eacbf105b0d0", "date": "2019-03-02T21:21:51+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders-Style Politics Are Defining 2020 Race, Unnerving Moderates", "full_text": " [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] DES MOINES — The sharp left turn in the Democratic Party and the rise of progressive presidential candidates are unnerving moderate Democrats who increasingly fear that the party could fritter away its chances of beating President Trump in 2020 by careening over a liberal cliff. Two months into the presidential campaign, the leading Democratic contenders have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced leftist ideas on health care, taxes, the environment and Middle East policy that would fundamentally alter the economy, elements of foreign policy and ultimately remake American life. Led by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a democratic socialist who is the top candidate in the race at this early stage, many vocal leaders in the party are choosing to draw lessons from liberal victories in 2018 rather than the party’s breakthroughs in moderate suburban battlegrounds that delivered Democratic control of the House. These progressive Democrats risk playing into Mr. Trump’s hands — he has repeatedly branded them “socialists” — yet they argue that their ambitious agenda can inspire a voter revolt in 2020 that elects a left-wing president. “Those ideas that we talked about here in Iowa four years ago that seemed so radical at the time, remember that?” Mr. Sanders, returning to Iowa this week for the first time as a 2020 candidate, crowed on Thursday. “Shock of all shocks, those very same ideas are now supported not only by Democratic candidates for president but by Democratic candidates all across the board, from school board on up.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] The sprint toward populism amounts to a rejection of the incremental and often-defensive brand of politics that has characterized the party’s approach to highly charged issues for 40 years. Yet when nearly half of voters indicate in polls that they will not support the president’s re-election, many moderates say the cautious strategy in 2018 that helped the party pick up 21 House seats that Mr. Trump carried two years earlier should be the playbook for next year. “What we saw in the midterms is a lot of people from the center and moderate part of the party really win and take back the House,” said Senator Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, alluding to the careful and poll-tested campaigns many Democrats in Republican-leaning districts ran last year. “We need to make sure we’re being as pragmatic as we can.” This moderate wing of the party lacks an obvious standard-bearer. Former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, who would have run a centrist campaign, begged off this week; Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Midwestern progressive who favors a within-the-system style of pragmatic politics, also decided not to run. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is running, has presented herself as a centrist but has not yet gained traction. Should former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. enter the race, as his top advisers vow he soon will, he would have the best immediate shot at the moderate mantle. (And if he does not run, Democrats like former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia or Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York might try to seek that role.) Mr. Biden’s candidacy would immediately thrust a fundamental dispute to the center of the Democratic race: Do Americans simply pine for a pre-Trump equilibrium, less chaos and more consensus, or do the yawning disparities of these times call out for a more transformational administration? [Read more: A “beat Trump” fervor is producing big turnouts for 2020 Democrats.] Mr. Sanders and other Democratic candidates, like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, are plainly wagering that voters want more than a return to normalcy. “In 2016 Iowa helped begin the political revolution,” Mr. Sanders recalled on Saturday at a rally in Des Moines, referring to his near-victory in the state’s caucuses that year. “Now as we move to 2020 our job is to complete that revolution.” The liberal candidates have dominated the policy debate in the race so far. Ms. Warren proposed on Friday that the government break up big tech giants like Amazon and Facebook, the latest, and perhaps boldest, proposal to come from her campaign. And Mr. Sanders’s platform — “Medicare for all,” free college tuition and an aggressive plan to combat climate change — has grown in popularity, according to polls. Speaking at the University of Iowa as part of his campaign swing, Mr. Sanders also took aim at “establishment Democrats” and won his loudest and most sustained applause by pledging to push through his universal health care bill. Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, along with a new generation of high-profile progressives like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have emerged this winter as the clearest and most vocal arbiters of Democratic aspirations, if not the immediate congressional agenda. They are, at least, hastening the tectonic shifts taking place in the party. It was no accident that House Democrats modified a resolution targeting Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota — for her controversial claim that pro-Israel advocates carry an “allegiance” to a foreign country — after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, other lawmakers of color and the party’s leading presidential hopefuls rebelled against singling out Ms. Omar. The episode marked a striking departure from the down-the-line support for Israel that has characterized the upper ranks of most Democratic primaries. Relying on wealthy donors has also been standard fare, and unremarkably so, in past White House races. But Mr. Sanders elevated the issue of campaign finance in his 2016 race, and his jeremiads against the billionaire class have all but made super PACs verboten in this race; he and Ms. Warren are refusing to hold high-dollar fund-raisers. Representative Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, who won her seat after defeating an incumbent Democrat last year, conceded that the first months of 2019 had inflicted “growing pains” on Democrats, but she argued it was merely a necessary side effect in the party’s evolution. “After we build that muscle, we’re going to flex it,” Ms. Pressley said. Yet Mr. Biden, in speeches at home and abroad, has used much of the first part of this year pledging to restore the dignity he believes that the country has lost in the Trump years, promising a restoration rather than a revolution. And, as his supporters put it less subtly, his campaign would represent something else. “Overwhelmingly, the primary electorate of the Democratic Party wants to win,” Senator Chris Coons of Delaware said. He argued that Mr. Biden could “repair a lot of the ways in which our position in the world has been harmed” while offering a “hopeful, optimistic, positive” vision at home that would heal the divisions he said Mr. Trump has exacerbated. To such moderate Democrats, the most instructive recent election is not that of Mr. Trump in 2016 but rather the 2018 midterms, when many of the Democrats who won in battleground House districts and governor’s races were decidedly less confrontational than Mr. Sanders. “The overwhelming majority of seats we picked up were by center-left candidates representing more centrist-type districts,” said Representative Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania, adding, “There’s still lots of folks on our side who are O.K. with compromise.” Other Democrats are even blunter, fretting that the party risks alienating the broad middle of the electorate at a moment Mr. Trump is making no attempt to appeal to such voters. “You live for the day in politics when the other guy is conceding the majority of the country,” said Larry Grisolano, a longtime Democratic strategist. Yet for many Democrats — especially younger voters who have largely known only Mr. Trump and another once-unlikely president for eight years before that — it is a hopelessly outdated notion that the party must be prudent about who it nominates and tread only within centrist confines on animating issues like climate change, racial justice and universal health care. These progressives have no more experience with a right-of-center, Reagan-era framework than their parents did with the New Deal. “We have had enough of the centrist, corporatist Democratic — the type of Democrat that my mom would have voted for back in the ’90s,” said Jake Peters, a 23-year-old Iowan and Sanders volunteer who drove two hours to see him speak in Council Bluffs this week. “We just don’t have patience for the platitudes.” And Mr. Trump has emboldened these young activists, heightening the urgency they feel about enacting a progressive agenda, and convincing them that Mr. Sanders’s blunt-force message about injustice is what’s needed to defeat the president. Chris Kivlahan, 22, who came to the Iowa City rally, described a Sanders presidency this way: “I think if it’s going to happen, now is the time and Trump is the candidate to be running against.” Democrats in Washington are seeing the tensions within the party firsthand as they try to balance an agenda that their newly elected moderates can support while also mollifying more liberal newcomers who are eager to impeach Mr. Trump and pursue far-reaching goals, such as the Green New Deal. “A lot of young people have come into a world where there was more diversity, more opportunities and where they had use of social media,” said Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland about the expectations of next-generation activists and lawmakers, some of whom serve on the oversight committee he chairs. “A guy like me, I had to fight to even get in the door.” To tell some of these younger Democrats that a uncompromising progressive platform may be unattainable, let alone who can and cannot be elected president, is difficult given Mr. Trump’s victory and the chasm they see between the scale of the problems they will confront and the policies in place today. And unlike many in the party’s pragmatic wing, these Democrats believe the recipe for success in the general election is not to nominate another seemingly safe candidate like Hillary Clinton, who was unable to galvanize the base and lost crucial votes to a Green Party nominee, but to put forward somebody who will energize reluctant voters. “Obviously we’ve shown that we’re at a place where we’re O.K. with nontraditional candidates,” said Riley Wilson, a 29-year-old Nebraskan who crossed the Missouri River to see Mr. Sanders. He added: “I think so many people just aren’t involved at all in politics, and I think he would be able to bring some of those people into the fold because they’ll feel like they have options that they haven’t had before, politically speaking.” And about the Republican strategy, led by Mr. Trump himself, to pin the “socialism” label on the Democrats in 2020? Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii said it was mostly just his party’s elite “donor class” that had anything to fear from a sweeping, progressive agenda. Well, them and the arbiters of conventional political wisdom, he added. “What we’ve learned from last two presidential elections is that nobody knows anything,” Mr. Schatz said of the election of former President Barack Obama and Mr. Trump. “The people who write op-eds and stroke their chins and tell us how to win are the people who have been getting it wrong for almost two decades now.”    ", "id": "5c83dbf549f0eacbf105c35b", "date": "2019-03-09T15:28:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Beto O’Rourke Is 46. Bernie Sanders Is 77. Does Age Matter Anymore for Democrats?", "full_text": " KEOKUK, Iowa — Diana Martinez, 70, looked at Beto O’Rourke, 46, and made her choice: It was time for Generation X to fix this country. “Doesn’t he remind you of Kennedy?” Ms. Martinez said as Mr. O’Rourke offered firm handshakes and music recommendations to a coffeehouse crowd. “He’s young. That’s what it’s going to take to try and beat Trump.” Some closer to Mr. O’Rourke’s age were less convinced. Standing near the back, Erin Cruz, 41, sized up Mr. O’Rourke — and then praised the septuagenarian socialist senator, Bernie Sanders. “I’m looking for someone to be as progressive as Bernie,” Ms. Cruz said, tugging on a Red Hot Chili Peppers shirt. Actually, she amended, perhaps just Bernie himself. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] Mr. O’Rourke entered the Democratic primary race this past week with an aspirational pitch and a semi-improvisational tour of Iowa, with a Hawkeyes baseball cap and bilingual profanity on the stump, broadcasting his message of generational uplift and immediately thrusting age into the main currents of the 2020 race. The contenders leading in initial polls, Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., will be 79 and 78 by Inauguration Day 2021. President Trump will be 74. Yet as party activists begin to appraise the field, they are already grappling with whether to once again embrace a younger candidate who reflects the future or shrug off age and elevate a veteran politician who most clearly represents their simultaneous craving for undiluted liberalism and someone who can thwart Mr. Trump. If history is a guide, Mr. O’Rourke and other Democrats betting on a youthful appeal — like Cory Booker, 49; Julián Castro, 44; or Pete Buttigieg and Tulsi Gabbard, both 37 — should have an advantage. Of the last five Democratic presidents, only Lyndon B. Johnson, who ascended to the job because of the assassination of a 46-year-old president, was older than 52 when he was first elected president. The roster of Democratic losers in modern times is littered with nominees who were neither young nor new to the political scene. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But for many in the party, dedication to this critical component of past success — putting forward a new face — is being tested in the 2020 race by twin impulses: the devotion to Mr. Sanders among voters many decades younger than him, who share his belief that American society is rife with inequities that will not be solved by candidates like Mr. O’Rourke, and an overriding desire among Democrats to defeat a president they believe is a menace to democracy. Supporters of Mr. Sanders believe he offers transformational change — the promise of not merely ousting President Trump but also remaking the country into a more just place — and brings experience that would help him survive a general election and expand the electorate. At the same time, moderates in the party are tempted by Mr. Biden, wagering that the political equivalent of comfort food to America may prove the safest recipe. This combination of a primary electorate that is at once hungry for structural, even radical, reform and deeply nervous about nominating someone too callow to defeat Mr. Trump poses perhaps the most serious challenge to a candidate like Mr. O’Rourke. He shuns ideological labels, even chafing at “progressive” in the past; often avoids being pinned down on policy; and has no experience in the crucible of presidential politics. “I know Bernie has a laid-out plan for Medicare and free tuition,” said Austin Palmer, a 25-year-old South Carolinian who went to see Mr. Sanders vow political revolution Thursday night in North Charleston. “Beto has made some broad statements so far.” Mr. Palmer invoked the recent scandal involving parents committing bribery to get their children into elite colleges, shaking his head at what he sees as a rotten society that must be razed, not reformed. Yet he also indicated that he was most enthusiastic about Mr. Sanders because of the polls he recalls showing that the Democrats’ 2016 runner-up would have defeated Mr. Trump. “I’m really concerned about being able to beat Trump,” he said. “That’s my big worry.” Mr. O’Rourke has ample time to flesh out his agenda — he spoke fondly, if not always specifically, this past week of “bold, progressive ideas” — and he enjoys considerable assets: a history of record-shattering online fund-raising, the appeal of celebrity in a country besotted by fame and a grip on the imagination of a party that loves to fall in love after his star-making-if-campaign-losing Senate race in Texas. But he is facing a 2020 campaign and election that differ considerably from when Democrats last rewarded a generational argument in a presidential race by nominating then-Senator Barack Obama. “There’s still a big part of the party that wants to fall in love, and there’s another part of the party that will settle for anything that will beat Trump,” said Senator Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut, at 45 the youngest Democratic senator. “I think that’s a real, daily tension in the party that’s going to play out in real time.” There could ultimately be a best-of-both-worlds solution — “It just happened that in 2008 and 2012 we fell in love with the most electable candidate,” Mr. Murphy recalled — but like many Democrats, he could only guess for now. “I would generally make the case that the Democratic Party should always be nominating the next-generation candidate,” he said, “except I’m not sure any of the old rules apply.” The evidence was conflicting at Mr. Sanders’s South Carolina rally on Thursday. As unfathomable as it may be to the moderate wing of the Democratic Party, many in attendance made the case for Mr. Sanders as much on his electability as his liberal platform. “I want to support someone who I think really has a chance of winning,” said Brandon Greene, a 27-year-old student and pastor. “We can’t take a gamble on a new candidate.” And Tasha Horton, a 45-year-old real estate broker with college-age children who “love the Bern,” allowed that her “love is for Kamala but strategically it’s either Bernie or Biden.” Ms. Horton, who went to the same church gymnasium recently to see Senator Kamala Harris, 54, added: “We have to think that way. You can’t think with your heart.” Yet even as Mr. Greene and Ms. Horton, who are both African-American, made the case for Mr. Sanders, the bulk of the audience reflected limits in his appeal: In a city where nearly half of the population is black, the rally attendees were overwhelmingly white. As a soloist sang gospel music that doubled as a filibuster for the tardy senator, some in the crowd noodled as if it were a Phish jam rather than an organ-backed hymn about joy coming in the morning. Many of the voters at the Sanders event said they were open to other candidates; they just wanted to hear “about specifics,” as Mr. Greene put it, and be convinced that a younger alternative could prove viable. Still, as Mr. Sanders took the stage and thundered against economic inequality, excoriating the compensation packages of individual health care executives, the contrast between his unsparing indictment and comprehensive agenda and Mr. O’Rourke’s frequent generalities could not have been starker. “I want to do something that very few public figures will do, and I want to tell you exactly what justice means to me and I hope to you,” the senator told his youthful, sign-waving charges. In Iowa, meanwhile, the newest candidate in the race was casting his political worldview as a kind of high-minded pragmatism, describing bipartisanship as a necessity during his six years in the House minority. “I made it my mission to ensure that the perfect never becomes the enemy of the good,” Mr. O’Rourke said to cheers in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, boasting of a veterans’ health care measure signed into law by Mr. Trump. He frames his events as two-sided conversations, at times prodding voters to say how they might solve the challenges they cite. “Thoughts? Ideas? Suggestions? Advice?” he asked high school students in Fort Madison. When pressed, by voters and reporters, for more details, Mr. O’Rourke has equivocated or vacillated on several policy questions. Asked about health care at the first of eight events on Thursday, Mr. O’Rourke steered clear of “Medicare for all,” the progressive proposal he once endorsed without apparent reservation, calling more generally for a “guaranteed, high-quality” system instead. “I think that’s one of the ways to ensure that we get to guaranteed, high-quality health care for every single American,” he said of “Medicare for all” in Washington, Iowa. “I’m no longer sure that that’s the fastest way to get there.” Asked at another event about reparations, a growing issue in the Democratic race, Mr. O’Rourke held forth for four minutes — on John Lewis, Martin Luther King, the arc of systemic racism — without answering the question of where he stood. But Mr. O’Rourke’s lack of detail does not dissuade his most ardent supporters. As with Mr. Obama’s, the Texan’s admirers are galvanized by a message that, with leadership that can bring people of good will together across party lines, a better day for the country awaits. “Trump appeals to the worst of America, candidates like Beto appeal to the best of America,” said Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, 48, a Democratic leader who may become the first Generation X House speaker someday and has not backed anyone in the race. Across eastern Iowa, Mr. O’Rourke encountered many young people excited by his candidacy, arriving in T-shirts from his Senate race or, in one case, a customized “Betomania” button featuring the candidate with a guitar. “Everything about him is an inspiration,” said Angela Scott, 27, after meeting (and high-fiving) Mr. O’Rourke at a sub shop in Burlington, Iowa. “You can’t help but like that man.” In other moments, though, his audiences included a striking dichotomy: enchanted older voters, convinced that younger voters would flock to Mr. O’Rourke and rescue the party from Mr. Trump, and younger voters excited by someone else. As Mr. O’Rourke spoke in Mount Pleasant, standing on a cafe counter, a cluster of teenage fans of Mr. Sanders watched in the wings, curious about Mr. O’Rourke but unmoved by any suggestion that Mr. Sanders is not a man for the times. “That’s ageism,” said Garrick Dodson, a self-described socialist progressive who will turn 18 next month. “I don’t have a problem voting for an old person I agree with more than a young person.” Mr. Dodson and his friends suggested that their elders underestimated the boiling anger of the teen and 20-something generation, aghast at what they see as their forebears’ indifference to climate change and student loan debt. “Gen Z, baby,” Mr. Dodson said. “Gen Z is coming,” warned a peer, Madison Brady, 18. “We’re so angry.” Matt Flegenheimer reported from Keokuk, Iowa, and Jonathan Martin from North Charleston, S.C.    ", "id": "5c8cbb7249f0eacbf105d6a1", "date": "2019-03-16T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Sexism Claims From Bernie Sanders’s 2016 Run: Paid Less, Treated Worse", "full_text": " In February 2016, Giulianna Di Lauro, a Latino outreach strategist for Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential operation, complained to her supervisor that she had been harassed by a campaign surrogate whom she drove to events ahead of the Democratic primary in Nevada. She said the surrogate told her she had “beautiful curly hair” and asked if he could touch it, Ms. Di Lauro said in an interview. Thinking he would just touch a strand, she consented. But she said that he ran his hand through her hair in a “sexual way” and continued to grab, touch and “push my boundaries” for the rest of the day. “I just wanted to be done with it so badly,” she said. When she reported the incident to Bill Velazquez, a manager on the Latino outreach team, he told her, “I bet you would have liked it if he were younger,” according to her account and another woman who witnessed the exchange. Then he laughed. Accounts like Ms. Di Lauro’s — describing episodes of sexual harassment and demeaning treatment as well as pay disparity in Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign — have circulated in recent weeks in emails, online comments and private discussions among former supporters. Now, as the Vermont senator tries to build support for a second run at the White House, his perceived failure to address this issue has damaged his progressive bona fides, delegates and nearly a dozen former state and national staff members said in interviews over the last month. And it has raised questions among them about whether he can adequately fight for the interests of women, who have increasingly defined the Democratic Party in the Trump era, if he runs again for the presidential nomination in 2020. The former staff members said complaints about mistreatment and pay disparity during and just after the campaign reached some senior leaders of the operation. In an interview Wednesday night on CNN, Mr. Sanders said he was proud of his 2016 campaign and attributed any missteps with staff members to the explosive growth that was sometimes overwhelming. “I’m not going to sit here and tell you that we did everything right, in terms of human resources,” he told Anderson Cooper. “I certainly apologize to any woman who felt she was not treated appropriately, and of course if I run we will do better the next time,” he said. Asked if he knew about the staff complaints, he said, “I was a little bit busy running around the country trying to make the case.” Some women said the fledgling 2016 campaign was disorganized and decentralized, which made it hard to know whom to turn to in the case of mistreatment. “I did experience sexual harassment during the campaign, and there was no one who would or could help,” said Samantha Davis, the former director of operations in Texas and New York, who also worked on the campaign’s advance team. She said that her supervisor marginalized her after she declined an invitation to his hotel room. In interviews, women told of makeshift living accommodations on the road, where they were asked to sleep in rooms along with male co-workers they didn’t know. Women who had access to salary records were taken aback to learn that some female staff members made thousands of dollars less than their male counterparts. Two delegates who supported Mr. Sanders two years ago recently told his staff that he can’t run for president again without addressing the sexism they believe surfaced in his last campaign. “There was an entire wave of rotten sexual harassment that seemingly was never dealt with,” one of the delegates wrote in a December email, obtained by The New York Times, to a Sanders political strategist. Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager and currently a top adviser, said in an email that “anybody who committed harassment on the campaign would not be asked back” and expressed regret for the operation’s shortcomings. “Was it too male? Yes. Was it too white? Yes,” he said. “Would this be a priority to remedy on any future campaign? Definitely, and we share deeply in the urgency for all of us to make change. In 2016, as the size of our campaign exploded, we made efforts to make it a positive experience for people. That there was a failure pains me very much.” Friends of Bernie Sanders, the senator’s campaign committee, said in a response to questions from The Times that there were a number of actions taken during the 2016 campaign regarding harassment and sexism, including employee counseling and a campaign-wide review to standardize pay, and that there was a set of procedures and guidelines for workplace conduct that staff members were required to read. It also said it had developed a new harassment policy for Mr. Sanders’s Senate campaign last year. Allegations of sexism surfaced during Mr. Sanders’s campaign in 2016, when many of his male fans were derogatorily dubbed “Bernie Bros” for their aggressive online attacks against female reporters and supporters of Hillary Clinton. But they did not overshadow the electrifying nature of his insurgent challenge. Circumstances have changed since then. Mr. Sanders is no longer an outsider, but an established leader who will be held to a higher standard. And regarding the treatment of women, he must now grapple with the effects of the #MeToo movement. Political campaigns can be grueling experiences for both the women and men involved. But some involved said they considered the treatment of women on the Sanders campaign especially upsetting because the senator positioned himself as a champion of progressive ideals and equality, according to interviews and messages shared on Facebook. “I don’t think he has to be the vehicle or the platform for the movement that emerged from his campaign,” said Sarah Slamen, who worked for the campaign in Texas, was the state coordinator in Louisiana and helped build out Our Revolution, a progressive organization born from Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign. “Do you know how hard that is for me to say after working so hard for him?” she said. Ms. Slamen quit the organization at the end of 2016 after she said she was berated by a male member of the Our Revolution steering committee for suggesting an organizing plan. In emails reviewed by The Times, she raised issues about sexist behavior with committee members who saw the incident and Our Revolution’s national board of directors. She said she received no reassurance that anything would change. In recent weeks, a Facebook group for campaign alumni has become a sounding board for complaints about harassment, lewd comments and gender discrimination. Some alumni have requested a meeting with the senator and his campaign leadership team to address the “overall toxic atmosphere of the 2016 campaign,” according to a screenshot of a post viewed by The Times. Politico first reported on the request. Ms. Di Lauro, the former strategist in Nevada, was emphatic in her own Facebook posts. “I have to speak up about this now because I hope it will be of service to the next Sanders campaign,” she wrote on Dec. 7. In her interview with The Times, Ms. Di Lauro said she told several people who were high up in the campaign, including Rich Pelletier, who served as national field director, about her encounter in Nevada with the surrogate, a Mexican game show host named Marco Antonio Regil. But she felt she was not taken seriously by the campaign. “It was as if nothing happened,” she said. Masha Mendieta, who was also on the Latino outreach team and who was with Ms. Di Lauro when she spoke with Mr. Velazquez about the incident, confirmed his comments. Mr. Velazquez said he does not recall making the flippant remark to Ms. Di Lauro and that he took her complaint seriously. He said he assigned two women to accompany the surrogate, and he checked in with them to make sure there were no problems. Mr. Regil said through his agent that he was honored to be a campaign surrogate for Mr. Sanders. “I sincerely apologize for any interactions or behavior on my part that could’ve made anyone feel uncomfortable,” he said. Mr. Velasquez said he also told his boss, Arturo Carmona, another manager on the Latino outreach team and deputy national political director, about what had happened and followed up with a memo to Mr. Carmona two weeks later, detailing the incident in an email and saying that he believed Ms. Di Lauro. Mr. Carmona said in an email to The Times that, after Mr. Velazquez notified him about the incident, he reported it to Mr. Pelletier. The senator’s campaign committee, in its responses to The Times, said no member of the leadership above Mr. Pelletier was aware of the incident until after the campaign. The committee said managers in some cases had not received appropriate training. “With the benefit of hindsight, the surprise explosion of the campaign resulted in there being less-than-ideal training infrastructure,” it said. Mr. Pelletier did not respond to phone messages and emails seeking comment. Pay disparity became another source of frustration among some women, according to former staff members, especially given that labor was one of the senator’s signature issues. During his campaign, Mr. Sanders earned kudos for paying his interns, a relatively unheard-of practice. Some former staff members said there was little pay transparency, and employees often negotiated their own salaries — practices that tend to favor men, who often feel more comfortable requesting higher compensation packages. Ms. Davis, the former state director, said that she was originally paid about $2,400 a month as a senior staff member and saw in the campaign’s records that a younger man who was originally supposed to report to her made $5,000 a month. She said that she brought the issue to the campaign’s chief operating officer, who adjusted her salary to achieve parity. “I helped at least a dozen women request raises so that they would be paid on par with their male peers,” Ms. Davis said. The senator’s campaign committee acknowledged that there were pay disparities but said salaries were based on experience or the nature of the job and “never determined based on any consideration of an individual’s gender or of any other personal characteristic.’’ During the campaign, the committee said, it conducted a review to try to standardize pay across the states and within headquarters. Frustration among campaign alumni boiled over in recent weeks when Mr. Carmona, the deputy national political director and a divisive figure on the 2016 campaign, appeared smiling in a photograph in early December with Mr. Sanders’s wife, Jane, at a symposium hosted by her organization, the Sanders Institute. In 2017, when Mr. Carmona was running for Congress, Ms. Mendieta, the woman who worked with Ms. Di Lauro, came forward with allegations that Mr. Carmona had demeaned women during the 2016 campaign. Ms. Mendieta said in a March 2017 post on Medium that Mr. Carmona treated female staffers “like his personal assistants fetching things for him and doing his errands.” Other women backed up Ms. Mendieta’s allegations, and a letter signed by dozens of former campaign staffers and surrogates was circulated urging progressives to withdraw their endorsements of Mr. Carmona. (He lost his special election primary bid in 2017.) In an interview, Ms. Mendieta said that she complained multiple times to Mr. Velazquez and Mr. Pelletier about Mr. Carmona and was repeatedly ignored, at one point being told by Mr. Velazquez that she should forgive Mr. Carmona’s behavior because he was “macho.” Mr. Velazquez said that he did not remember making that remark or anything like it. Ms. Mendieta was among the Latino outreach team members who she said were expected to stay in a run-down house in Chicago in March 2016. When she arrived, she said she was told she was supposed to sleep in a room with three men she did not know. “I was shaking with fear,’’ she said. “Literally, I remember thinking to myself, ‘What am I going to do?’” She said she reported the incident to Mr. Pelletier. The campaign committee said that “the challenge of finding staffer housing is one that plagues every large campaign.” It said it knew of one instance that was brought to the attention of senior leaders, including Mr. Weaver, the campaign manager, and that both Mr. Weaver and the chief operating officer “ordered that staff never be housed in coed hotel rooms again.” Some weeks later, Ms. Mendieta and other members of the Latino outreach team shared their concerns about Mr. Carmona and Mr. Velazquez during a conference call with Mr. Pelletier, Ms. Mendieta said.  The Times has reviewed an email scheduling the call, and another staff member who participated confirmed the substance of the discussion. Mr. Carmona was promoted out of the Latino outreach group during the campaign and named a deputy national political director. Mr. Carmona, in an email, denied the allegations that he was demeaning and said, “All sexual harassment and issues of discrimination should be taken seriously and investigated thoroughly.” Kitty Bennett, Doris Burke and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.    ", "id": "5c2d22d93a125f5075c02943", "date": "2019-01-02T20:45:11+0000"}]