[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump’s Nominee for the E.P.A.", "full_text": " letter A former agency official praises Andrew Wheeler, a career employee, for his qualifications and character. To the Editor: Re “This Coal Lobbyist Should Not Run the E.P.A.,” by Dominique Browning (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Jan. 14) regarding President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency: Unlike the first E.P.A. administrator in the Trump administration, Andrew Wheeler has decades of experience working on environmental issues as a career E.P.A. employee and as the Senate Environment Committee’s staff director. Senators and congressional staffers, both Republicans and Democrats, know him well from his long tenure, and while they may disagree with him, all like and respect him because of his knowledge, experience and approach. Since becoming acting administrator, Mr. Wheeler has been an effective leader at the agency. He is committed to protecting the environment and has the respect of the career staff, but he is also committed to correcting the regulatory overreach that occurred under the previous administration. Mr. Wheeler understands how the regulatory process works and the type of effort that is required to develop effective and legally defensible regulatory reforms. Opponents can certainly challenge the administration’s approach to environmental issues, but attacks on Mr. Wheeler’s character and qualifications are beyond the pale. Jeff HolmsteadWashingtonThe writer served as the Environmental Protection Agency’s air administrator from 2001 to 2005. ", "id": "5c5348bc3a125f5075c075df", "date": "2019-01-31T19:12:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "E.P.A. Moves to ‘Close the Door’ on Asbestos. Consumer Groups Say Loopholes Remain.", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Wednesday issued a regulation it said would impose new restrictions on asbestos, a deadly substance once commonly found in insulation materials.  The final Environmental Protection Agency rule goes somewhat further than the initial version the agency had proposed, but public health advocates said it still fell short of the protections needed. Under the rule, the agency will require companies to obtain federal approval in order to domestically manufacture or import specific types of products using asbestos. Alexandra Dapolito Dunn, the E.P.A. assistant administrator for chemical safety and pollution prevention, said the rule would “close the door” on using asbestos without approval. Asbestos is a set of six naturally occurring fibrous minerals that have the ability to resist heat, fire and electricity but are also known carcinogens. Under the rule, if a company wanted to use the substance in any of 15 specific ways, including as a component in floor tile or roofing felt, it would have to seek E.P.A. review and approval. Previously banned asbestos items like pipe insulation would remain banned. “Prior to this new rule, E.P.A. did not have the ability to prevent or restrict certain asbestos products from being reintroduced into the market,” Andrew Wheeler, the agency’s administrator, said in a statement. He said the measure gave regulators “unprecedented authorities” to prohibit asbestos products from entering or re-entering the market. The move comes just days after Mr. Wheeler testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee that he would commit to banning current uses of asbestos under federal chemical safety law. Consumer groups said the E.P.A.’s new regulation falls well short of that pledge. Linda Reinstein, president of Asbestos Disease Awareness Organization, an asbestos victim advocacy group, called the rule “toothless.” She noted that the regulation does not restrict the import of raw asbestos, which is commonly used in the chlorine industry.  According to the organization, asbestos poisoning is linked to about 40,000 deaths in the United States annually. “More than 60 nations around the world have put public health before private profits and banned asbestos,” Ms. Reinstein said. “Americans deserve the same from our government.”  The E.P.A. was required to create the new process for regulating uses of asbestos under a 2016 amendment to the Toxic Substances Control Act. That Obama-era amendment requires the agency to regularly re-evaluate the harmfulness of toxic materials. A version of the asbestos rule put forward last year prompted an outcry from E.P.A. scientists, who said in internal emails obtained by The New York Times that they feared the regulation would make it easier for asbestos to come back into more widespread use. But public health activists said the final rule had one important improvement over the previous version. It added a catchall category of “any use of asbestos not previously identified” that also would trigger review. Gary Timm, a former chief of chemical testing at the E.P.A. who retired in 2011 and now works with the Environmental Protection Network, a consortium of former agency employees that has been critical of the rule, praised the measure on Wednesday and said the group would not oppose it.  “A complete ban is appropriate but this is an easier thing to do. It’s something that should put a fence around the current uses,” Mr. Timm said. “It’s a partial step, a good first step.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5cb79e4549f0eacbf1f851be", "date": "2019-04-17T21:43:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Andrew Wheeler, Who Continued Environmental Rollbacks, Is Confirmed to Lead E.P.A.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed Andrew R. Wheeler to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, giving oversight of the nation’s air and water to a former coal lobbyist and seasoned Washington insider. The confirmation formalized a role Mr. Wheeler has held in an acting capacity since the summer when President Trump’s first administrator, Scott Pruitt, resigned amid multiple ethics inquiries.  The vote, 52-47, went mostly along party lines and underscored partisan divisions over the Trump administration’s continued commitment to repealing environmental regulations under Mr. Wheeler.  Senator Susan Collins of Maine was the only Republican to vote against Mr. Wheeler. “The policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation,” Senator Collins said. Nearly eight months after taking over the chief role from Mr. Pruitt, who was known for his combative style, analysts said Mr. Wheeler had brought a change in demeanor to the agency but virtually no difference in policy direction from his predecessor. Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. Jonathan H. Adler, a professor at the Case Western Reserve University School of Law, characterized Mr. Wheeler’s soft-spoken style and willingness to listen to criticism as genuine. But, he said, “It’s not going to mean that his priorities suddenly go away or that he’s suddenly going to abandon the regulatory philosophy that the administration from the very top has embraced.” “This is an administration that would like to reduce the overall regulatory footprint of the federal government,” Mr. Adler said.  Republicans said they have been delighted to discover Mr. Wheeler is as enthusiastic about repealing environmental regulations and promoting coal as Mr. Pruitt was, and are looking to him to cement Mr. Trump’s legacy as a warrior against what they see as regulatory overreach. “He’s been a very solid follow on to Scott Pruitt.” said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist. “He’s followed through in a fairly aggressive fashion on everything Scott started.”  Mr. Wheeler has moved to dramatically weaken two of former President Obama’s signature climate change initiatives, cutting emissions from power plants and from automobiles, while also proposing to make new coal-fired power plants easier to approve.  He also has also sought to unwind the legal justification for curbing toxic mercury emissions from power plants, limit federal protection of small waterways, and dismissed a panel of independent scientific advisers. Some of the most consequential climate rollbacks are expected to be finalized in the coming months. That will most likely touch off a barrage of lawsuits from Democratic-governed states and environmental activists who have vowed to fight the rollbacks. Mary D. Nichols, who leads California’s air quality agency, said she had experienced firsthand the dissonance between Mr. Wheeler’s demeanor and his actions. So, about a week after Mr. Pruitt’s resignation, when Mr. Wheeler called her office at the California Air Resources Board, Ms. Nichols said she was encouraged. “He wanted to make sure I knew he was going to be more open and accessible than his predecessor was,” Ms. Nichols said. Nevertheless, negotiations continued to stagnate.  “Everyone was polite, that was a welcomed change,” she said. “But there was no difference in policy.”  The White House announced last week that the E.P.A. and the Department of Transportation had ended talks with California over its clean-air waiver. The move signaled that the administration is closer to finalizing its rule to roll back tailpipe emissions standards that were put in place under President Barack Obama and will quite likely try to revoke California’s ability to set its own pollution rules. “I have to say that I don’t find him materially different than Scott Pruitt in his policies or the mission that he has taken on,” Ms. Nichols said. “The only difference really is that he is more polished and more professional to deal with.”  On climate change, Mr. Wheeler also has taken a calibrated tone that contrasts with his policies. Unlike Mr. Pruitt who went on television to say carbon dioxide is not a primary contributor to global warming and rising global temperatures might be good for humanity, Mr. Wheeler told a Senate confirmation panel in January that “climate change is real.” He rated his level of concern about climate change, on a scale of 1 to 10, at an eight or nine. But, two weeks later, he appointed John Christy, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Alabama, Huntsville, who has testified that the earth will benefit from more planet-warming emissions, to an influential E.P.A. scientific advisory board. And asked whether he intended to work with Congress to finalize a ban on chlorpyrifos — an insecticide associated with developmental delays and cognitive impairments in children that Mr. Pruitt, acting against the advice of the E.P.A.’s own chemical safety experts, chose not to remove from use — Mr. Wheeler assured lawmakers in a written statement that the agency was “committed to fully evaluating this pesticide using the best available science.” Yet the agency under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership had already challenged a decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ordering the E.P.A. to ban the pesticide. This month, the court ruled in favor of the challenge and ordered a new hearing in the case. E.P.A. officials did not respond to a request for comment on this article.  Mr. Adler said that Mr. Wheeler’s experience in Washington has helped him avoid waving red flags in front of lawmakers. But ultimately, he said, Mr. Wheeler is committed to fulfilling the president’s agenda. “There is a tendency to assume if someone is reasonable they’re going to agree with you,” Mr. Adler said. “Wheeler has a very conservative view of environmental regulation and how it should be handled, and is very much in line with this administration’s overall regulatory philosophy.” Emily Cochrane contributed reporting. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c78245249f0eacbf105ab28", "date": "2019-02-28T18:10:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "This Coal Lobbyist Should Not Run the E.P.A.", "full_text": " President Trump’s nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency has overseen the dismantling of the nation’s environmental laws. Ms. Browning is a writer and co-founder of Moms Clean Air Force. When I was pregnant with my first child, 35 years ago, one of the first things my doctor in Texas told me was to stop eating tuna, swordfish and other large, fatty fish because they were contaminated with mercury. What I didn’t know until I began working on children’s health issues is that the mercury in our food starts as a pollutant in our air. Mercury is released from the combustion of coal and emitted into the atmosphere from the smokestacks of coal-fired power plants. It rains down on land and water, where it is passed up the food chain as methylmercury. Its effects among aquatic animals is particularly pernicious. By the time it reaches larger fish, the concentrations of mercury in their fatty tissue becomes dangerously magnified.  That’s why the federal government warns against consuming certain seafood. When pregnant women eat mercury-laden fish, the poison immediately crosses into the bloodstream, travels into the placenta and then makes its way into the fetus, where it deposits itself in the fattiest tissue available: the brain. Mercury is a potent neurotoxin. It disrupts the developing architecture of a baby’s brain. It can cause brain damage in infants, affecting a child’s ability to walk, talk, read and learn. For adults, ingesting even small amounts of mercury can cause serious health problems, harming the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs and immune system. Those coal-fired power plants also spew out lead, arsenic, dioxin, acid gases, as well as cancer-causing chromium and selenium. The Environmental Protection Agency spent more than 20 years working on standards that would require power plants to filter mercury from their emissions. The power industry repeatedly sued the agency to block restrictions. But finally, in 2011, the E.P.A. finalized a rule, the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards, that imposed limits on mercury emissions. The standards have been a resounding success; a testament to a government agency doing its job to keep us safe. To comply, many power plants were outfitted with technology known as scrubbers to remove mercury from the emissions before they leave the smokestack. Since the rule went into effect in 2012, electric companies have cut mercury emissions by nearly 90 percent, according to the Edison Electric Institute, an industry group. Mercury levels in Atlantic fish have been dropping in recent years, a consequence of this rule, but not in fish in the Pacific Ocean, where prevailing winds carry mercury pollution from Asia.  So who would want to unravel such an important health protection? The very man President Trump nominated last Wednesday to succeed Scott Pruitt as the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: Andrew Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler, currently the acting administrator, had served as the deputy administrator under Scott Pruitt, who resigned in July facing more than a dozen investigations into his spending and management practices.   The Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee is scheduled to consider his nomination at a hearing this Wednesday.   A former coal industry lobbyist, Mr. Wheeler recently proposed a revision to the way the government evaluates the costs and benefits of regulating mercury emissions and, more broadly, air pollution. While the proposed change would not itself upend the rule, it would revoke the E.P.A.’s determination that it was “appropriate and necessary,” undermining the very foundation on which the regulation is built.  In other words, if the rule wasn’t “appropriate and necessary,” why have it? In essence, Mr. Wheeler is inviting the coal industry to challenge the mercury rule in court. And not only the mercury rule. By rewriting the way costs and benefits are evaluated, Mr. Wheeler’s proposal threatens regulations governing a host of other environmental poisons. The issue over the mercury rule has focused on costs and benefits. Mr. Wheeler’s E.P.A. argues that the Obama administration was wrong to include “co-benefits” that would result from the rule. The scrubbers that remove mercury from coal plant emissions also reduce other pollutants, especially particulates, which are deadly, so this co-benefit keeps lethal pollution out of the air. Reductions in heart and lung disease from particulates prevent up to an estimated 11,000 premature deaths a year. And those other hazardous air toxics coming from industrial coal stacks? As someone who has survived kidney cancer — my oncologist vaguely explained it was “one of those environmental cancers” — I can promise you these aren’t things we want to breathe: probable carcinogens like cadmium, arsenic, benzene and formaldehyde, among others. The cost associated with harm from these was not even monetized by the E.P.A. Keeping them out of our air is a “freebie.” If anything, the benefits of reducing mercury have been vastly understated. Since the rule was finalized, the science documenting the severe health impacts of mercury has become even stronger. New studies show that the quantified benefits of reducing mercury are now in the billions of dollars; a study published in the journal Environmental Health in 2017 estimated that the societal costs associated with the neurocognitive deficits from methylmercury exposure in the United States that year was $4.8 billion. Among those urging the E.P.A. to leave the mercury standards alone was, surprisingly, the nation’s electric utility industry, which found that implementation cost far less than they had anticipated. Power industry experts indicate the true costs of the standards are $2 billion — or less than a quarter of what the agency originally estimated. Mr. Wheeler ignored the industry’s request that the standards be left in place. As the Rev. Mitch Hescox, president of the Evangelical Environmental Network, wrote in The Christian Post, addressing Mr. Wheeler’s legalistic cover of not overturning the rule but making it vulnerable to legal attack: “God is not fooled — and neither are we.” He added, “We’ll never give up on protecting children and the unborn from mercury pollution. Never.” President Trump’s pro-polluter agenda is profoundly radical — and immoral. We are in danger of normalizing the president’s ruthless disregard for health- and science-based protections. Mr. Wheeler’s cynical ploy to upend the mercury regulations is emblematic of his agenda. His fingerprints are all over proposed rollbacks of environmental regulations covering cars, carbon emissions from power plants, coal ash and more. For this destructiveness, Mr. Trump praised him in November, saying he had “done a fantastic job and I want to congratulate him.” Mr. Wheeler’s E.P.A. is also weakening implementation of a bipartisan law passed in 2016 protecting the public from toxic chemicals; people with chemical industry résumés dominate his staff. And Mr. Wheeler has sought to roll back an Obama-era rule requiring energy companies to monitor and repair leaks of methane; these leaks can occur from the moment a well is fracked until the gas gets to your home. Methane is an extremely powerful and swift contributor to global warming. Rather than move the country onto a path toward climate safety, Mr. Trump and Mr. Wheeler are leading us — and the world — closer to mutually assured destruction. Mr. Wheeler is more media savvy than Mr. Pruitt ever was, and that makes him more dangerous. His nomination to run the E.P.A. is among the most consequential and cynical of all the cabinet appointments that Mr. Trump has proposed. Mr. Wheeler’s disregard for the agency’s core mission — to protect public health and the environment — is brazen. But what else should we expect from a former coal industry lobbyist?  Andrew Wheeler has demonstrated over and over again why he should not be entrusted with protecting us from harm. If his failure to do one single thing to address the global warming catastrophe isn’t bad enough to stop this nomination, perhaps his decision to upend the mercury rule, which could threaten the brains of tiny babies, will wake up senators. No one voted to make America dirty again.  Dominique Browning is the senior director and a co-founder of Moms Clean Air Force.", "id": "5c3c6bb53a125f5075c0444d", "date": "2019-01-14T11:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "E.P.A., Scaling Back Proposed Ban, Plans Limits on Deadly Chemical in Paint Strippers", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency announced on Friday new limits on a lethal chemical found in paint stripping products that has been linked to more than 50 deaths since the 1980s. Chemical safety activists called the plan a significant scaling-back of the ban that the Obama administration had proposed. In 2017 the Obama administration concluded the chemical, methylene chloride, represented an “unreasonable risk” and moved to ban it from commercial as well as consumer use. Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A. administrator, on Friday signed a rule that prohibits the manufacture and use of consumer products containing methylene chloride, but did not ban it for commercial use. The agency is also considering a proposal for a certification and training program for workers who use the chemical commercially. “Families have lost loved ones in tragic and heartbreaking circumstances,” said Alexandra Dunn, the E.P.A. assistant administrator for chemical safety. “We answered the call for many affected families to ensure that no other family experience the death of someone close to them from this chemical.” Stores will have 180 days to stop selling products containing methylene chloride. After that, violators will face fines or possible imprisonment. Ms. Dunn said the E.P.A. expected retailers to comply “much more quickly.” So far, at least 13 retailers have announced that they have removed or will remove from their shelves paint stripping products that contain the chemical. Relatives of three men who died from exposure after working with paint strippers containing methylene chloride met in early 2018 with Scott Pruitt, then the administrator of the E.P.A. Among them was Brian Wynne, the brother of Drew Wynne, who died in 2017 after stripping paint from the floor of his coffee company in Charleston, S.C.  Another was Wendy Hartley of Nashville, Tenn., whose son Kevin died at age 21 after refinishing a bathtub for the family’s business. Ms. Hartley said on Friday that she had declined to meet with E.P.A. officials ahead of the agency’s announcement because the ruling does not ban the chemical outright.  “I am deeply disappointed that the E.P.A. has watered down the ban on methylene chloride as it was originally proposed,” she said in a text message. “Workers like my son Kevin who use MC are left unprotected.”  Lindsay McCormick, project manager for chemicals and health at the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental group, said while the chemical is a threat to people who use paint strippers in their homes, the majority of deaths associated with methylene chloride have been work-related. She called the E.P.A. decision “a step in the right direction” but added, “I don’t want to lose sight of the fact that this is only addressing a portion of the population, and we really need to protect all Americans.” E.P.A. officials did not say why the agency had opted against a ban, but suggested that one could still be imposed based on the comments the agency receives about its plan to create a certification program.  Faye Graul, executive director for the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance, an industry group, said in a statement she was disappointed with the ban on consumer uses of the substance and said the organization had worked with the Consumer Product Safety Commission to improve labeling. “We hope that alternative products offered to consumers, most of which are flammable, do not result in greater fire risk,” she said. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the brother of Drew Wynne, who died after stripping paint from the floor of his coffee company. He is Brian Wynne, not Bryan. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c8be51149f0eacbf105d4d7", "date": "2019-03-15T17:45:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Andrew Wheeler, at E.P.A. Confirmation Hearing, Walks a Fine Line on Climate Change", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — When Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, testified before Senators on Wednesday at his confirmation hearing, he found himself walking a tightrope on the issue of climate change. One of the most pointed moments came shortly after he told senators that climate change was not “the greatest crisis” facing our planet. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, then asked Mr. Wheeler, a former coal-industry lobbyist, to rate his level of concern on a scale of one to 10.  After a pause, Mr. Wheeler said, “about eight or nine.” “Really?” Mr. Merkley responded. Senator Merkley and other Democrats on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works took pains to focus in on Mr. Wheeler’s efforts to roll back environmental protections and undo Obama-era regulations designed to fight climate change as indicators that he is unsuitable to lead the E.P.A. President Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler last week to lead the agency but he has been on the job in an acting capacity since his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, resigned in July amid ethics scandals. If Mr. Wheeler is confirmed, a strong likelihood with Republicans holding a 53-to-47 majority in the Senate, he will formally become one of the top soldiers in Mr. Trump’s battle to undo regulations. “There is no more important responsibility than protecting human health and the environment,” Mr. Wheeler told lawmakers. “It is a responsibility I take very seriously.” At the same time, he said, the E.P.A. under his leadership has pushed forward with Mr. Trump’s agenda of deregulation. “Through our deregulatory actions, the Trump Administration has proven that burdensome federal regulations are not necessary to drive environmental progress,” he said. Since July, Mr. Wheeler has replaced of a broad plan to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan, with weaker rules. He has proposed to relax federal protections for streams and wetlands, ease controls of mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants, and eliminate restrictions on new coal plants, a move that would make it easier to bring more coal power online. Under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership the E.P.A. also has proposed reversing Mr. Obama’s clean car standards, one of the most important federal government tools for reducing planet-warming emissions. The plan also challenges the right of California and other states to set their own, more restrictive standards.  Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, chairman of the Environment and Public Works panel, said he expected the committee to vote on Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation in February and, soon after, bring the vote to the Senate floor.  But if the hearing itself is any indication, Mr. Wheeler could be in for a rocky tenure. His opening remarks, given as the government entered its 26th day of a partial shutdown, were nearly drowned out by demonstrators shouting “Shut down Wheeler, not the E.P.A.” The protesters were escorted out of the hearing room by Capitol Police officers as Mr. Wheeler began speaking. “Mr. Wheeler is certainly not the ethically bereft embarrassment that Scott Pruitt proved to be,” Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the top Democrat on the committee, said in his opening remarks. At the same time, he and other lawmakers pressed Mr. Wheeler on the string of regulatory rollbacks as well as his and Mr. Trump’s positions on climate change. “The scientific community has said the threat of climate change is one of the great crises facing our planet,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said. “Do you agree?” Mr. Wheeler said he believed that climate change is occurring, and that humans have an effect. But he told the committee: “I would not call it the greatest crisis, no sir. I would call it a huge issue that has to be addressed globally.” It was after that exchange that he made his remark to Mr. Merkley putting his level of concern at “eight or nine.” Mr. Wheeler was asked several times by Democrats if he would denounce Mr. Trump’s statement that climate change is a “hoax.” Mr. Wheeler responded, “I have not used the hoax word myself.” He said that the planet is warming and that mankind plays a role, making Mr. Wheeler one of the few members of the Trump administration to openly acknowledge the basics of established climate science. But he also said he had not familiarized himself with major scientific reports, including one conducted by 13 United States agencies, that warned rising global emissions are an urgent crisis. He said that the E.P.A. under his leadership was addressing the challenge of rising carbon emissions. Mr. Wheeler repeated the Trump administration’s finding that its plan to revise the Clean Power Plan would still reduce planet-warming emissions by 34 percent below 2005 levels by 2030.  However, a Harvard University study published Tuesday disputed that, finding that the Trump administration’s plan would be worse for the planet than doing nothing at all. The study found that greenhouse gas emissions would “rebound” under the new policy by delaying the retirement of coal-fired power plants. Carbon emissions could rise in 18 states by as much as 8.7 percent by 2030, compared to having no carbon policy at all, the study found. Mr. Wheeler pushed back against those numbers, saying, “That is not what the career people at the agency are telling me.” Later in the hearing he said. “I believe we are moving forward on a proactive basis.” He also addressed recent findings that carbon dioxide emissions have spiked in the United States over the past year. According to the findings, by the research firm Rhodium Group, emissions rose 3.4 percent in 2018. That’s the largest uptick in United States emissions in eight years. Mr. Wheeler has frequently pointed to the fact that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 2.7 percent between 2016 and 2017 as proof that the Trump administration is protecting the environment while deregulating. Yet that dip occurred before Mr. Trump officially took office and it was largely driven by market forces. On Wednesday, Mr. Wheeler said he attributed the recent surge to an exceptionally hot summer and cold winter but said he believed the larger downward trend would continue. “I did not hear anything that makes me think anything different about his track record, which is that his actions at E.P.A. so far have been to undermine an scrap and kill protections,” said Molly Rauch, public health policy director at Moms Clean Air Force. Mr. Wheeler won high praise, though, from Republicans for rolling back the so-called Waters of the United States rule, which many farmers opposed on the grounds that it would result in overly burdensome regulations. Senator Barrasso, the committee chairman, said Mr. Wheeler had done an “outstanding” job leading the E.P.A. over the past six months and praised him for “common sense regulatory proposals.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. An earlier version of this article misstated Molly Rauch’s position with Moms Clean Air Force. She is public health policy director for the group, not a volunteer. Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman ", "id": "5c3f49533a125f5075c04b80", "date": "2019-01-16T15:10:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "E.P.A. Will Study Limits on Cancer-Linked Chemicals. Critics Say the Plan Delays Action.", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday said it will start work by the end of the year on a long-awaited plan to set national drinking-water limits for two harmful chemicals linked to cancer, low infant birth weight and other health issues. But environmentalists and Democratic lawmakers criticized the plan, saying it in effect delayed desperately needed regulation on a clear public health threat from chemicals that are commonly used in cookware, pizza boxes, stain repellents and fire retardants.  E.P.A. officials described their proposal as the “first-ever nationwide action plan” to address the health effects of human-made chemicals known as poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances, or PFASs. There currently no federal regulations on the production or monitoring of that class of about 5,000 chemicals, which are manufactured and used in a wide variety of industries and products. Studies have shown that they can linger in the human body for years, causing harmful health impacts. “The PFAS action plan is the most comprehensive action plan for a chemical of concern ever undertaken by the agency,” said Dave Ross, E.P.A.’s assistant administrator for water, in a telephone call with reporters on Thursday. Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A.’s acting administrator, who is now President Trump’s nominee to head the agency, called the plan a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.” The American Chemistry Council, an industry lobbying group, voiced support for the plan. “We continue to support strong national leadership in addressing PFAS and firmly believe that E.P.A. is best positioned to provide the public with a comprehensive strategy informed by a full understanding of the safety and benefits of different PFAS chemistries,” it said in a statement. Critics called on the agency to move more quickly, citing 2016 action by the Obama administration on two of the chemicals that suggested the urgency of the risk. “While E.P.A. acts with the utmost urgency to repeal regulations, the agency ambles with complacency when it comes to taking real steps to protect the water we drink and the air we breathe,” said Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Environment Committee. After a public outcry over tests showing dangerous levels of PFASs in communities around the United States, particularly around military bases and fire stations, the E.P.A. under the Obama administration in 2016 proposed creating a national standard for limiting the levels in drinking water of two of the most prevalent varieties of PFAS chemicals, known as PFOA and PFOS. It also issued a health advisory recommending that water utilities and public health officials monitor levels of the two chemicals in public water supplies, and notify the public if the combined levels of those chemicals reached 70 parts per trillion. A draft report released last year by the Department of Health and Human Services recommended that the “minimal risk level” for exposure to those two chemicals should be less than half that amount. Given the available data on the effect of PFAS chemicals, environmentalists criticized the E.P.A.’s response as inadequate to the threat. Scott Faber, an expert on chemical policy with the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy organization, called it a “drinking water crisis facing millions of Americans.” But the E.P.A., he said, is “just not treating the crisis the way it deserves.” In particular, critics of the E.P.A. have sited the role of Nancy Beck, a former senior director of regulatory science policy at the American Chemistry Council, in a slowdown of the agency’s response to addressing PFASs.  Last May, Scott Pruitt, the previous administrator of the E.P.A., convened a summit aimed at addressing the threat of PFAS chemicals, an announced that, as a first step, the E.P.A. would decide whether to set a national drinking water standard for PFOA and PFOS. Mr. Wheeler said Thursday that the agency intends to act quickly to begin that regulatory process. “Our goal is to close the gap on the science as quickly as possible,” he said, adding that the agency is also looking into technology to clean or reduce PFAS chemicals from drinking water. But Mr. Wheeler did not offer a clear timeline of when such a standard might be completed. Such regulatory processes can often take years.  Mr. Carper suggested that the E.P.A.’s failure to provide a clear timeline on completing the standard could influence the outcome of Mr. Wheeler’s Senate confirmation vote to lead the E.P.A., although given the Republican majority in the Senate, his confirmation is still likely assured. “I urge Mr. Wheeler to reverse course and treat this public health threat with the urgency it deserves,” Mr. Carper said. “And I ask my colleagues in the Senate to take note of Mr. Wheeler’s lack of urgency in addressing this threat as they consider his nomination to be E.P.A.’s permanent administrator.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. An earlier version of this article described incorrectly the position of Nancy Beck at the American Chemistry Council. She was senior director of regulatory science policy for the group, not a lobbyist. Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook ", "id": "5c658be73a125f5075c09b83", "date": "2019-02-14T15:38:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Douglas Costle, Who Helped Create the E.P.A. and Then Ran It, Dies at 79", "full_text": " Douglas M. Costle, who helped draw up the blueprints for the federal Environmental Protection Agency and served as its administrator when it tackled toxic waste sites and fluorocarbons and monitored radioactivity from the Three Mile Island nuclear disaster, died on Jan. 13 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 79. His wife, Elizabeth, said the cause was complications of a stroke. Appointed to head the agency by President Jimmy Carter in 1977, Mr. Costle (pronounced KOSS-tul) recruited 600 scientists and other professionals within two months of taking office at what was already the government’s largest regulatory body. He was instrumental in creating the so-called Superfund to decontaminate toxic waste sites after the Love Canal health crisis near Niagara Falls, N.Y., and oversaw a $400 million agreement with United States Steel to curtail air pollution. At his first news conference, Mr. Costle announced the recall of 135,000 Cadillacs because they had failed to meet minimum standards under the newly minted Clean Air Act. “Clean air is not an aesthetic luxury,” he said when he became E.P.A. administrator. “It is a public health necessity.” Mr. Costle was the administrator when the agency banned aerosol spray fluorocarbon gases in 1978 and when it was assigned the lead role in monitoring the release of radioactivity after the partial meltdown of the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant reactor in Pennsylvania in 1979. In 1978, after extensive studies, he had approved a cooling system for the Seabrook nuclear power plant in New Hampshire, which used seawater, after explaining that his agency’s role was limited to assessing whether water heated by the reactor at the plant would harm fish and plant life. As E.P.A. administrator, a position he held until 1981, Mr. Costle was in the vanguard of the federal government’s efforts, not all of them successful, to define safety metrics for toxic chemicals and metals and enforce limits, while the White House was also weighing the inflationary impact of regulation. He advanced the relatively novel argument that environmental regulation spurred economic development because it preserved resources. He acknowledged, however, that some of the fledgling movement’s early efforts, particularly at the state level, resulted from “an era of improvisation.” “It wasn’t just drafting a document and throwing it out for a policy debate, casting thy bread upon the waters to see how soggy it gets,” he said in an interview for the federal agency’s oral history program in 1996. “We had to make the abstract work.” After Mr. Carter was defeated for re-election in 1980 and Mr. Costle left the agency, he joined an environmental testing company, served as dean of Vermont Law School from 1987 to 1991 and unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for United States senator from Vermont in 1994. He moved to McLean in 2003. In addition to his wife, Elizabeth (Rowe) Costle, he is survived by a daughter, Caroline Costle; a son, Douglas Jr.; and three grandchildren. A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018 Douglas Michael Costle was born on July 27, 1939, in Long Beach, Calif., to George and Shirley (Ellinghaus) Costle. His mother was a medical administrator, his father an engineer. He was raised in Washington State, where his appreciation for nature was nurtured during fishing trips with his father to Spirit Lake, near Mount St. Helens. He earned a bachelor’s degree in history from Harvard in 1961, graduated from the University of Chicago Law School in 1964 and worked as a trial lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil rights division under Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. He also served in the Army Reserve, in military intelligence. After Richard M. Nixon was inaugurated in 1969, Mr. Costle was recruited by a friend to the White House Advisory Council on Executive Organization. He played a major role in conceptualizing the environmental agency, which Nixon created by executive order in December 1970. During his tenure in Washington, Three Mile Island and Love Canal became battle cries for the environmental movement. In the mid-1970s, a quarter-century after the Hooker Chemical Company stopped using Love Canal, in upstate New York, as a dump site, suspected carcinogens were found to be leaching through the soil into the backyards of homes built on the banks of the filled-in ditch dug by William Love, who had planned a model community there at the end of the 19th century. Hundreds of families had to be relocated by the federal government as it confronted an entirely new environmental challenge. “It is one thing to deal with gross pollution you can see, where rivers catch on fire, or there’s a heavy plume from a smokestack,” Mr. Costle said in 1996. “Everybody can visually understand that. What is much harder to understand is the ubiquitous presence of toxins in the environment, where you don’t yet know what the long-term health effects or the mechanisms are.”", "id": "5c4a070f3a125f5075c06259", "date": "2019-01-24T18:42:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Shutdown Means E.P.A. Pollution Inspectors Aren’t on the Job", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. WASHINGTON — The two-week-old shutdown has halted one of the federal government’s most important public health activities, the inspections of chemical factories, power plants, oil refineries, water treatment plants, and thousands of other industrial sites for pollution violations. The Environmental Protection Agency has furloughed most of its roughly 600 pollution inspectors and other workers who monitor compliance with environmental laws. Those scientists, engineers and analysts are responsible for detecting violations that endanger human health, as they did, for example during an August 2018 airborne inspection that found that oil and gas fields in Karnes County, Tex., were leaking illegal levels of chemicals into the atmosphere, in violation of the Clean Air Act. While the inspection personnel represent a relatively small proportion of the E.P.A.’s total of about 15,000 workers, their absence increases the chances that, either by design or by accident, companies might emit illegal levels of contaminants into the air or water without detection, for weeks on end, according to people familiar with the E.P.A. inspections. “There are plants that discharge wastewater into streams and rivers, places that store hazardous chemicals in containers that could leak — we show up and test these places to see if they’re meeting pollution laws,” said Garth Connor, a furloughed E.P.A. inspector based in Philadelphia who has been off the job since Monday. “Now there’s nobody out there to check if they’re complying.”  Mr. Connor inspects for air and water pollution and hazardous waste disposal at sites throughout the Mid-Atlantic. The inspectors “are the cops on the beat,” Cynthia Giles, who headed the E.P.A. enforcement division during the Obama administration, wrote in an email.  She noted that, in 2017, E.P.A. workers performed about 11,700 such inspections, averaging to about 225 inspections per week, according to the agency’s records. The numbers suggest that hundreds of such inspections may have already been canceled this year, with the potential for hundreds more to not take place should the shutdown continue for days or weeks more. “Those weeks can never be made up,” Ms. Giles wrote. “In addition to the violations not found and the inspections not done, there is also the impact of no inspectors in the field doing unannounced inspections,” she added, asking: “Will that result in more violations because companies know E.P.A. isn’t watching?” Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of the E.P.A., did not respond to an email requesting comment. On Wednesday, President Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler, who was confirmed last year as the deputy chief of the agency, to formally take over as the agency head. When on the job, E.P.A. inspectors regularly cite companies for violations that endanger human health. For example, during an April 2016 inspection at a Firestone rubber plant in Sulphur, La., E.P.A. inspectors discovered that the plant was emitting illegal levels of butadiene, a carcinogen, into the community.  A telephone message left at the plant was not returned.  Some E.P.A. inspections are unannounced. Others take the form of two- and three-week on-site visits.  Still other examinations don’t happen on-site: E.P.A. experts sitting in labs or at computers will review documents detailing a plant’s own reported emissions of pollution or wastewater, checking whether legal limits were met or violated. These activities, too, are on pause during the shutdown. Inspectors need to read those reports “and say, ‘no, you can’t do that,’” said Eric Schaeffer, who worked at the E.P.A. on enforcement from 1990 to 2002 and now runs the Environmental Integrity Project, an advocacy group. “Then they follow up and go on-site. But none of that is happening.” Unlike other federal agencies affected by the government shutdown, the E.P.A. continued to operate through the week of Dec. 24, but pollution inspections, along with most of the rest of the work of the agency, had ceased by New Year’s Eve. Mr. Schaeffer recalled the effect on pollution enforcement of the longest government shutdown in history, which ran from Dec. 16, 1995, to Jan. 6, 1996. “That was one of the worst years ever at the E.P.A. in terms of numbers of inspections and enforcement,” he said. He added that the damage to the work of pollution inspections didn’t end completely once the government reopened. “Everything was ground to a halt, bogged down. You can’t just restart at 100 miles per hour. You have to reschedule everything.” Another former E.P.A. official who now lobbies on behalf of industry offered a different view, saying that a shutdown of even a few weeks was unlikely to make much difference in the amount of illegal pollution emitted or detected. “What you have is a delay,” said the former official, Jeffrey Holmstead, who served in the E.P.A. during both Bush administrations and now works for some of the largest coal companies and electric utilities in the country. “I don’t think it’s true that all of a sudden, because E.P.A.’s inspectors are not there, that most people will take advantage of that,” he said. “There may be a few folks who believe they can get away with more, but I don’t think that’s the biggest issue.” Among Mr. Holmstead’s clients are several companies that have been cited for violations by the E.P.A., including the electric utility Southern Company, which has had 52 sites with violations over the past five years, including 23 sites with current violations, according to E.P.A.’s enforcement database. An email sent to a Southern Company spokesman requesting comment on the violations was not answered.  Another of Mr. Holmstead’s clients, the electric utility, Ameren, owns 23 sites that have been cited for pollution violations over the past five years. A telephone message left with an Ameren spokeswoman was not returned. In many years, about 10 to 20 percent of the E.P.A.’s pollution inspections turn up significant violations, according to the agency’s data. Most operators “really are doing a good job,” said Adam Kushner, a former top legal official at the E.P.A. “But there’s a 1 percent that are bad actors, who will continue to do what they’re going to do, unless inspectors find them. And then there are sites where the operator just may not have identified the problem, and they’re putting bad stuff out into the air without knowing it.” Angela McFadden, a furloughed E.P.A. environmental engineer who oversees state permits for pollution discharge and has worked as an on-site inspector dealing with clean water violations, said she “always” found violations during her time as an inspector. For example, she said, in inspecting municipal water systems in rural areas she frequently found that cities and towns over-chlorinated or under-chlorinated their water — not a legal violation, but a potentially harmful situation that is easily corrected when identified by an inspector.  Ms. McFadden recalled a more frightening inspection she once performed in Pennsylvania that found excessive nitrate levels in a municipal water supply. Nitrates can sap oxygen from the blood and, when found in high levels in drinking water, are linked to “blue baby syndrome,” in which infants struggle to deliver enough oxygen to their bodies. “Right now, E.P.A. is not monitoring any of that,” Ms. McFadden said. “Things are falling through the cracks.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. A picture caption with an earlier version of this article twice misidentified the owner of the E.D. Edwards power station in Bartonville, Ill. The station is owned by Vistra Energy, not Ameren Corp and not Dynegy Inc. (Ameren sold the plant to Dynegy in 2013. Dynegy folded into Vistra in 2018.) The picture has been removed. An earlier version of this article described incorrectly Angela McFadden's role at the Environmental Protection Agency. She is an environmental engineer who works for an agency program that oversees state-issued permits for the discharge of pollution in rivers and streams. Though she has worked as an on-site inspector dealing with clean water violations, she is not an inspector of water sites. The article also misquoted Ms. McFadden in her comments about her work at the E.P.A. While Ms. McFadden said, “I always find violations,” she did not go on to say, “even if it’s not things that are illegal.” The article also suggested that problems with chlorine levels in water are especially common in rural West Virginia. That is not the case. Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.  @CoralMDavenport • Facebook ", "id": "5c368f023a125f5075c03a08", "date": "2019-01-10T00:17:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Trump County Confronts the Administration Amid a Rash of Child Cancers", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. JOHNSON COUNTY, Ind. — The children fell ill, one by one, with cancers that few families in this suburban Indianapolis community had ever heard of. An avid swimmer struck down by glioblastoma, which grew a tumor in her brain. Four children with Ewing’s sarcoma, a rare bone cancer. Fifteen children with acute lymphocytic leukemia, including three cases diagnosed in the past year. At first, families put the illnesses down to misfortune. But as cases mounted, parents started to ask: Could it be something in the air or water? Their questions led them to an old industrial site in Franklin, the Johnson County seat, that the federal government had ordered cleaned up decades ago. Recent tests have identified a carcinogenic plume spreading underground, releasing vapors into homes. Now, families in a county that voted overwhelmingly for President Trump are making demands of his administration that collide directly with one of his main agendas: the rolling back of health and environmental regulations. On Wednesday, a group representing dozens of concerned parents called for a federal investigation by the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General — the same watchdog that examined the government’s slow response to the water crisis in Flint, Mich. — into why Franklin’s toxic plume of trichloroethylene, or TCE, persists. The group accuses the E.P.A. of “serious mismanagement” and “significant delays” at the site, even after the dangers became apparent this summer, according to a letter the group said it sent to the E.P.A.’s Office of the Inspector General. But the parents’ demands also reach well beyond immediate concerns about the chemicals under their feet.  Families across the political spectrum have also spoken out against the Trump administration’s drive to weaken restrictions on TCE, a colorless fluid with a subtle, sweet odor used by as many as four-fifths of the nation’s 65,000 dry cleaners, as well as about 2,200 factories and other facilities. Decades ago, it was used at the Franklin site. Twice last year, parents from Johnson County traveled to Washington to urge the administration to stick with stronger controls. “We are done begging,” said Kari Rhinehart, the mother of Emma Grace Findley, the 13-year-old swimmer who developed brain cancer and died in 2014. “We are demanding the E.P.A. finish what it started and place these restrictions on TCE and other dangerous toxins.” The E.P.A. confirmed that the chemicals were present near the Franklin site and said that fewer than 10 of 37 homes it had tested had potential air quality issues. The agency said its testing was continuing and that, if necessary, homes would be fitted with devices to clean the air.  Declaring TCE “carcinogenic to humans by all routes of exposure,” the Obama administration had sought to restrict two of its riskiest uses, as a stain remover and as a degreaser, and had marked it for further review, potentially to ban the chemical altogether. It had also moved to strengthen cleanup rules for hundreds of sites nationwide believed to be contaminated.  But at the urging of industry groups, the Trump administration has stalled some of those moves. In 2017 it indefinitely postponed the proposed bans on risky uses, leaving as many as 178,000 workers potentially exposed. It also scaled back a broad review of TCE and other chemicals so that it would exclude from its calculations possible exposure from groundwater and other forms of contamination — the problems present in Franklin.  In Johnson County, a parents’ group co-founded by Mrs. Rhinehart, If It Was Your Child, has traced at least 58 childhood cancer cases since 2008. At 21.7 cases of pediatric cancer per 100,000 children, Johnson County’s rate puts it in the 80th percentile among counties nationwide, according to data for 2011-2015 from the National Cancer Institute. Both the national and Indiana average are fewer than 18 pediatric cancers per 100,000 children.  “You don’t expect to see so many cancers in a relatively small community,” said Dr. Paolo Boffetta, professor in environmental medicine and public health at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. Even so, he stressed that there was little research linking childhood cancers to TCE. “This doesn’t mean an association doesn’t exist,” he said. “But studies have not been able to confirm it.”  Motria Caudill, a scientist at the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which investigates environmental hazards, said at a community meeting in Franklin in November that it was still too early to draw conclusions. Her agency was still working with others, she said, “just to see what is going on.”  The TCE contamination has been traced to a former factory that, for years, discharged industrial wastewater into a municipal sewer. Amphenol, an electronics maker based in Wallingford, Conn., became responsible for the cleanup after acquiring the site, though it no longer owns the property. In June, tests by an environmental group, Edison Wetlands Association, working with parents, detected the chemical in the air at two homes and in outdoor air near the site. The findings prompted more tests by local and state government officials, including one by Franklin that found levels more than 250 times state limits around a sewer near the homes. In November, the E.P.A. identified a plume of contamination stretching beyond the site toward nearby homes. Joseph Bianchi, an Amphenol spokesman, said the company was working “to help ensure the well-being of residents,” and the E.P.A. has promised to team up with the company on a cleanup plan. But at the November community meeting, patience wore thin.  “When will this cleanup be done and gone,” asked Sonya Hallett, a local philanthropy consultant and mother of one, “and not hazardous to people who are living around it?” The state investigators who descended on Jennifer Clark’s house in October drilled into her basement floor. They sought signs that chemicals in the ground were turning into a vapor and rising into her home, a phenomenon known as “vapor intrusion.” Her daughter Chelsea learned when she was 12 that she had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. After chemotherapy, Chelsea, now 18, is in remission; she dreams of working in the beauty industry. But over the summer, the Clarks received daunting news. Tests at their home on behalf of the Franklin parents’ group detected TCE levels more than 18 times federal limits.  Testing is tricky. Results can be affected by the weather or even by doors left open, said Kelly Pennell, associate director of the federally funded Superfund Research Center at the University of Kentucky. Indeed, later tests showed lower levels in the house.  Still, the Clarks remain worried. Their youngest daughter is now 12. “This is our forever home right here, where the kids are going to come back with the grandkids,” Mrs. Clark said.  They live about a mile and a half from the former industrial site in Franklin, now a patch of grass bordered by old railroad tracks to the north and neat rows of homes to the south. Amphenol agreed to a cleanup in 1990, installing a “pump and treat” system that was supposed to control the contamination. For decades Amphenol pumped out groundwater, but contamination remained.  The technology’s apparent ineffectiveness raises questions about hundreds of other sites using it, said Shannon Lisa, program director at Edison Wetlands. “How many other communities across the United States are facing these very same issues?” she said. Two girls lived, several years apart, in the same Franklin apartment about a mile from the toxic site. Both developed cancer, one at age 8 and the other at 14. “You can’t go anywhere, or do anything, without meeting someone who’s been affected,” said Angela Brennan, whose daughter, Karley, was one of those girls. In 2012, the family learned that Karley had cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a rare cancer affecting the skin. Later that year, 14-year-old Madison Newton was told that she had an aggressive form of pilocytic astrocytoma, which causes tumors in the brain and spinal cord. Karley, who turns 15 this week, is in remission. Madison died in 2015. And across Franklin, If It Was Your Child yard signs dot the city, where a local TV station, WTHR Channel 13, is doggedly tracking the concerns.  There are conflicting views in Johnson County of the administration’s environmental rollbacks. There is talk that the federal government should get out of people’s lives, even as local officials have called on the E.P.A. to take over the response to the contamination.  “When it comes to public health, we can go against party lines. And I don’t agree with trying to roll back the E.P.A.’s role,” said Steve Barnett, Franklin’s mayor and a Republican. “Back in the day, there weren’t any rules. That’s why there was so much contamination,” he said.  Many members of If It Was Your Child in the Franklin area play down the politics, noting that both parties have let the cleanup fall by the wayside. Nevertheless, their demands come at a time when the Trump administration has weakened the very rules that could prevent another Franklin. “We should not have to fight Republicans or Democrats to save our children. It’s not a political fight for us,” said Stacie Davidson, a Trump voter who co-founded the parents’ group with Mrs. Rhinehart (who didn’t vote for Mr. Trump).  Mrs. Davidson said, “His loosening of E.P.A. regulations, it’s infuriating.” She added, “We’re ruining the environment for money.” Mrs. Davidson learned in 2014 that her stepson, Zane, who was 10 at the time, had a rare form of leukemia. He is now in remission. She has traveled to Washington to speak in favor of stronger TCE regulations. “What we’re fighting for is seemingly being undone right now,” she said. Still, she said, she did not regret her vote. “Trump’s a businessman. There are great things he can do for our country. But he’s used to building high rises for money,” she said. “He’s not as environmentally savvy. Our hope is that he surrounds himself with people who are more knowledgeable.” Despite the emergence of alternatives to TCE, the Trump administration has stalled action on restricting its use. “There have been greener alternatives to TCE for years,” said Tom Forsythe, an executive vice president at Kyzen, a Tennessee cleaning-materials company, who joined E.P.A. officials in a conference call in August 2017 to lay out other options. But a few months later, in October, when E.P.A. officials visited the Integer medical devices factory in Minneapolis, Minn., the agency received a different message.  “According to Integer, there are no effective alternatives,” read an E.P.A. memo about the visit, which was arranged by a chemicals group, the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance. Dry cleaners have also lobbied against a tightening of protections, arguing among other things that substitutes could harm clothing. “Yes, we have spoken to E.P.A. about our desire not to have TCE banned — as is our right of free speech,” said Faye Graul, the chemical group’s executive director. TCE “is used in tightly controlled industrial settings,” she said, “with controls in place so that no workers are harmed.” Johnson County bills itself as the festival county. In December, it hosted a holiday parade and a drive-through Nativity with live actors. And the economy is strong. A technology park measuring nearly a million square feet is soon opening in Franklin. “I see good things that Trump has done,” said Mr. Barnett, the mayor, emphasizing his town’s future. “The economy’s good. There’s been a lot of investment into our city.”  Recently, though, Mrs. Rhinehart has been thinking of the past. Four Christmases ago, her daughter Emma Grace suffered two severe seizures.  “She said, ‘Mommy, something’s not right,’ and I knew we weren’t going to get much more time,” Mrs. Rhinehart said, recalling their final conversation. “I gave her some medication and she drifted off to sleep.” For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. Hiroko Tabuchi is a climate reporter. She joined The Times in 2008, and was part of the team awarded the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. She previously wrote about Japanese economics, business and technology from Tokyo.  @HirokoTabuchi • Facebook ", "id": "5c2d3f8c3a125f5075c02988", "date": "2019-01-02T22:47:37+0000"}]