[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "N.R.A. Sues Contractor Behind NRATV", "full_text": " It’s the N.R.A. versus NRATV. The National Rifle Association sued one of its largest and most enduring contractors late last week and raised concerns about the contractor’s relationship to the association’s own president, Oliver North, in a stunning breach within the normally buttoned-up organization. The suit was filed late Friday by the N.R.A. in Virginia, where it is based, against Ackerman McQueen, the Oklahoma ad firm that operates NRATV, the group’s incendiary online media arm. The suit asserts that Ackerman has concealed details from the N.R.A. about how the company is spending the roughly $40 million that it and its affiliates receive annually from the association. The suit creates uncertainty about Mr. North’s future at the organization. And it leaves the future of NRATV in doubt, given the new acrimony in the Ackerman relationship. Since Ackerman created NRATV in 2016, it has often been “perceived by the public as the voice of the N.R.A.,” according to the rifle association’s complaint. It has also taken on an apocalyptic tone, warning of race wars, calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and portraying the talking trains in the children’s show “Thomas & Friends” in Ku Klux Klan hoods. The New York Times reported this year that two prominent N.R.A. board members were among those voicing alarm inside the association that NRATV was often straying beyond gun rights. The Times article also revealed that Ackerman had a previously undisclosed financial relationship with Mr. North. The association is untangling broader problems as well, including a legal fight in New York with the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo over an insurance program the N.R.A. offers to gun owners. The new state attorney general, Letitia James, has also repeatedly threatened to investigate the tax-exempt status of the organization, which was incorporated in New York. Facing this regulatory backdrop, the association began a review of its financial relationships with hundreds of vendors in August to ensure that it was in compliance with best practices. The N.R.A. complaint alleges that Ackerman refused to turn over a number of financial records, including those detailing out-of-pocket expenses “that lacked meaningful documentation of N.R.A. approvals, receipts or other support.” The association also wants documents that it says could allay its concern that it was being invoiced for the full salaries of Ackerman employees who also did work for other Ackerman clients. In addition, the complaint alleges that Ackerman has refused to provide data about NRATV’s unique visitors and various other performance measures. “The N.R.A.’s patience has run out,” the suit says. Ackerman, in a statement, sharply disputed the contentions in the lawsuit, whose filing was earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal. “During a three-week review, an N.R.A. forensic auditing firm received every single piece of information they [the N.R.A.] requested,” the statement said. “Further, the N.R.A. has had consistent access to any and all documents regarding NRATV analytics. Despite the representation set forth in their lawsuit, the N.R.A. had the personnel contract they claim AM withheld last week before they filed their lawsuit.” The complaint details a peculiar standoff with Ackerman over Mr. North, who took over as president last year. The N.R.A. claims it was aware that Mr. North had a contract to act as the host of a web series for Ackerman, but that Ackerman has refused to provide a copy of the contract for nearly six months. Additionally, Mr. North’s counsel told the N.R.A. that “he could only disclose a copy of the contract” if Ackerman said he could, the suit says. Subsequently, Ackerman allowed the N.R.A.’s general counsel to view the contract but not keep a copy; the viewing added to N.R.A. concerns that it had not previously received an accurate summary of the document. The association was also concerned that Mr. North’s relationship to Ackerman could “supersede his duties to the N.R.A.” A standoff persists over additional details about the relationship, according to the complaint. The lawsuit is further complicated by family ties. The N.R.A.’s outside lawyer, William A. Brewer III, is the son-in-law of Angus McQueen, a co-chief executive of Ackerman, and the brother-in-law of Revan McQueen, its chief executive. Ackerman called the relationships an “irreconcilable conflict of interest” and said some kind of family dispute “pervades the Brewer firm’s dealings with Ackerman McQueen.” Travis Carter, a spokesman for Mr. Brewer’s law firm, said “the familial relationship” had “no bearing whatsoever on the N.R.A.’s litigation strategy.” He added, “Any suggestion to the contrary is contrived and a red herring.” The suit culminates the fracturing of a more than three-decade relationship between Ackerman and the N.R.A., going back to the shaping of such memorable lines as Charlton Heston’s proclaiming that his gun would have to be pried “from my cold, dead hands.” Wayne LaPierre, the longtime chief executive of the N.R.A., had previously been a steadfast champion of the Ackerman relationship. “I think it says something about Wayne’s character, even though he’s had a long-term working business relationship with a vendor, he’s willing to do what is right and necessary for the N.R.A. and its members,” said Todd Rathner, a board member of the rifle association. Joel Friedman, another board member, said he was dismayed that the documents had not been turned over. “It leaves you questioning, and you can come up with all these potential different scenarios as to why, but none of them are good,” he said. “My mind goes to: Are they overcharging us? That’s one,” he added. “Two, are there things charged to us that were not part of the contract? Then, No. 3, has there been a misallocation of personnel?” Susan Beachy contributed research.   ", "id": "5cb5174349f0eacbf1f845ca", "date": "2019-04-15T23:42:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Protect Women, Not the N.R.A.", "full_text": " letter The National Organization for Women criticizes the gun lobby and the members of Congress in its sway.  To the Editor: Re “N.R.A.’s Next Target: Violence Against Women Act” (news article, April 2): The National Rifle Association uses its legislative scorecard as a means of intimidating lawmakers into voting its way. The bills it chooses to include in its ratings reflect its top policy goals. Now you report that reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act will be on that list. The message is clear: Vote to protect women’s lives at your political peril. The N.R.A. wants to leave open the “boyfriend loophole,” which allows intimate partners who are convicted of domestic violence, stalking or abuse to keep their firearms. Current protections apply only to men who are married to or who live with the women they abuse and with whom they have a child; boyfriends and exes get a pass. More than 1,800 women were murdered by men in 2016, and the most common weapon used was a gun, according to a study by the Violence Policy Center. The study found that most often, women were killed by men in the course of an argument. Congress must close the boyfriend loophole, reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act and make protecting women — not the gun lobby — its focus. Toni Van PeltWashington The writer is president of the National Organization for Women.", "id": "5ca64b0f49f0eacbf1f80f3a", "date": "2019-04-04T18:19:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The N.R.A. and Domestic Abuse", "full_text": " letter A reader faults the gun lobby for blocking a new provision in the Violence Against Women Act.  To the Editor: Re “N.R.A.’s Next Target: Violence Against Women Act” (news article, April 2): It’s hard to imagine what the National Rifle Association was thinking by targeting the Violence Against Women Act. Can it truly believe that an angry, jealous, stalking, abusing, assaulting, drunk, dismissed man with a gun isn’t dangerous? Really? Can it really believe that this position will be well received? Can any Republican or Democrat want his or her name associated with this position?  In an America where the #MeToo movement has raised the consciousness of everyone, where the names of sexual abusers make headlines, where students are rallying against the use of guns, where parents grieve the loss of children, where places of worship and entertainment are targets of gun violence, the N.R.A.’s position is arrogant, inexcusable and dangerous and needs to be challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses across the country. Doris FenigBoca Raton, Fla.", "id": "5ca3a6eb49f0eacbf1f803b6", "date": "2019-04-02T18:14:41+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Incendiary N.R.A. Videos Find New Critics: N.R.A. Leaders", "full_text": " The flash point was Thomas the Tank Engine. Last September, the National Rifle Association’s famously combative spokeswoman, Dana Loesch, provoked widespread outrage when she took to the gun group’s streaming service to mock ethnic diversity on the popular children’s program “Thomas & Friends,” portraying the show’s talking trains in Ku Klux Klan hoods. Now, growing unease over the site’s inflammatory rhetoric, and whether it has strayed too far from the N.R.A.’s core gun-rights mission, has put its future in doubt. The site, NRATV, is a central part of the organization’s messaging apparatus. Since its creation in 2016, it has adopted an increasingly apocalyptic, hard-right tone, warning of race wars, describing Barack Obama as a “fresh-faced flower-child president,” calling for a march on the Federal Bureau of Investigation and comparing journalists to rodents. In recent weeks, in a rare airing of internal debate at the N.R.A., two prominent board members expressed concerns about NRATV to The New York Times. Their statements were released through the N.R.A. itself, amid what was described as an internal review of NRATV and its future. “Since the founding of NRATV, some, including myself and other board members, have questioned the value of it,” Marion Hammer, the group’s most formidable lobbyist and a key adviser to its chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, said in a statement. “Wayne has told me and others that NRATV is being constantly evaluated — to make sure it works in the best interest of the organization and provides an appropriate return on investment.” The reassessment underscores a debate within the N.R.A. over how broad its activism should be. And it comes as the organization faces a storm of challenges, including a series of mass shootings that has created a new generation of gun-control activists. Congressional investigations into the N.R.A.’s possible Russia ties were energized after Maria Butina, a suspected Russian agent, pleaded guilty in December to using the N.R.A. in a political influence operation. And the organization, incorporated in New York, may have a potent foe in Letitia James, the state’s recently elected attorney general, who has vowed to investigate the N.R.A.’s tax-exempt status. As falling membership dues put the N.R.A. under further strain, board members have also expressed concern about the size of payments to the ad firm that produces NRATV, Ackerman McQueen. The firm and its affiliates pocketed $40 million from the N.R.A. in 2017; billings directly to Ackerman have increased nearly 50 percent since 2015. One prominent host, Dan Bongino, left amid cutbacks at NRATV, but he said the site had tried to retain him. Ackerman, a partner to the gun group  since the “I’m the N.R.A.” campaign of the 1980s, runs the NRATV Twitter account, has done polling work for the organization and revamped its gun safety program for children. It has also been credited with a slick makeover of Mr. LaPierre — who, in the words of one former N.R.A. lobbyist, previously resembled an “introverted chess champion.” Mr. LaPierre’s wife, Susan, has worked for an Ackerman subsidiary, and there has come to be a revolving door between the two companies, with many employees having worked by turns for both NRATV and Ackerman. Oliver L. North, the N.R.A. president, has a contract with Ackerman, though the N.R.A. would not disclose its size. As part of the relationship, Mr. North, a former Fox News pundit, hosts media programming and special events, like the show “American Heroes,” which recently began airing on NRATV. The N.R.A., a nonprofit, has also directed $18 million since 2010 to a private company jointly owned by executives of Ackerman and the N.R.A., according to records and interviews. “It is clear to me that NRATV is an experiment and Wayne is evaluating the future of the enterprise,” Willes K. Lee, a board member who leads the N.R.A. Outreach Committee, said in a statement to The Times. After the Thomas the Tank Engine video, he said, Mr. LaPierre appeared “livid and embarrassed” in a meeting with the outreach group. “He apologized to the entire committee and spent hours listening to our concerns.” Ms. Loesch has emerged as NRATV’s most visible host, deriding gun-control advocates as “tragedy-dry-humping whores” and vowing to combat the left with what she called the “clenched fist of truth” — a body part that the comedian John Oliver said was located “a little past the bent elbow of nonsense.” In one video, she warned The Times, “We’re coming for you”; in another, she threatened to burn a copy of the newspaper. Chuck Holton, an NRATV correspondent, attributed terrorist activity in Europe to “the broader problem of multiculturalism and socialism” and to “gender-bending.” He also claimed that left-wing groups, the billionaire George Soros and the Venezuelan government were trying “to influence the 2018 midterms by sending Honduran migrants north in the thousands.” Grant Stinchfield, a host, claimed that “all radicalized terrorists are Muslims,” overlooking mass shooters like Dylann Roof, who killed nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in 2015. Such far-ranging commentary has raised questions among some N.R.A. members about the scope of the organization’s messaging. “The N.R.A. shouldn’t be putting this out,” said Jeff Knox, an N.R.A. member who runs the Firearms Coalition, a smaller advocacy organization. “It’s not gun rights; it’s red meat for the hard right.” Mr. Knox’s father, Neal, was an N.R.A. board member who played a leading role in an effort to fire Ackerman in the 1990s amid discontent over its growing influence. A faction loyal to Mr. LaPierre ultimately prevailed, leading to a purge of the board and allowing the two organizations to become more deeply intertwined. “Why are we getting so involved in left-right politics instead of sticking close to our issue, the Second Amendment?” the younger Mr. Knox asked. Ackerman declined to comment, but in a recent interview in The Oklahoman, Revan McQueen, the firm’s chief executive, said his company’s approach was evolving from pure advertising to a “philosophy of branded news.” As Ackerman’s website puts it, “Every brand must be its own media company.” To that end, the firm has created video networks for the Chickasaw Nation and the Integris health care system of Oklahoma, though their content is relatively benign. A recent episode of ChickasawTV, for example, featured a visit to an art gallery. Over on NRATV, a host was calling liberalism “a mental disorder.” Beyond NRATV, the N.R.A. backed Ackerman’s performance. “When Ackerman McQueen began working with the N.R.A., the association was little more than a fledgling grass-roots operation,” Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in a statement. “The N.R.A. is now the most effective advocacy organization of its kind,” he said, adding that the firm had created “a national platform for the N.R.A.” and that it was “an important partner.” During the N.R.A. power struggle in the 1990s, a board member filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming that an N.R.A. contract with an Ackerman subsidiary “was done without any ‘request for proposals’; any bidding process; and no competitive bidding.” The commission decided in a 6-0 vote not to take action, but criticisms have persisted. “The N.R.A. is willing to play fast and loose with tax regulations,” said Marcus S. Owens, a partner at Loeb & Loeb who served for a decade as director of the Exempt Organizations Division of the Internal Revenue Service. Ms. James, the New York attorney general, presents a new threat. Last year, she told Ebony magazine that the N.R.A. held itself “out as a charitable organization” but was actually “a terrorist organization.” William A. Brewer III, the N.R.A.’s outside counsel, said Ms. James had given no indication when she was a candidate that “the N.R.A. had done anything improper,” adding that she had instead promised “a taxpayer-funded fishing expedition.” A number of  transactions could draw scrutiny. Since 2010, the N.R.A. has paid $18 million to a company that produces “Under Wild Skies,” a hunting show on NRATV. Tyler Schropp, the N.R.A.’s advancement director, came to the organization in 2010 from Ackerman, and had a stake in the production company until at least 2017, but “no longer holds any interest,” Mr. Brewer said. Federal rules restrict transactions that confer economic benefits on key executives of tax-exempt organizations. Mr. Brewer described Mr. Schropp’s stake as “a minuscule interest” that the N.R.A. found not to be objectionable. Payments related to “Under Wild Skies” emerged only recently in N.R.A. tax filings. Other issues unrelated to Ackerman could also surface. The N.R.A. has transferred more than $100 million since 2012 from an affiliated charity that also lent the N.R.A. $5 million in 2017. Donations to the charity, the N.R.A. Foundation, are tax-deductible, while those to the N.R.A. are not. “If you’re doing a program that’s charitable, you run it through the charity,” said David G. Samuels, a partner at Duval & Stachenfeld who served in the charities bureau of the New York Attorney General’s Office, which oversees tax-exempt organizations. Such practices raise “red flags,” he said. Like some nonprofits, the N.R.A. has been lucrative for its top executives. Mr. LaPierre’s compensation rose from less than $200,000 in the mid-1990s to nearly $1.5 million in 2017. It spiked to more than $5 million in 2015, largely because of a retirement plan payout. A review of public records found that the N.R.A., which has about 550 employees, has disclosed that 41 employees, contractors, vendors or consultants have relevant family relationships to others connected to the organization, including a “niece-in-law” of Mr. LaPierre who was hired as a consultant. “The N.R.A. strives to comply with all applicable regulations,” Mr. Brewer said, adding that the organization has a “conflict-of interest-policy” and that “vendor agreements are reviewed and approved” by the board’s audit committee when appropriate. With New York regulators circling, it’s no surprise that the state’s politicians have become fodder for NRATV — particularly the governor, Andrew M. Cuomo, whose administration is already engaged in a legal fight with the gun group. Recently, the site even targeted Albany, describing it as “Graft City.” Whatever happens to NRATV, few expect the N.R.A. to become much less combative. Mr. LaPierre, in a speech this month, described the organization’s approach as “full-contact advocacy,” adding, “We are going to fight back against anyone who attempts to silence us.” An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to Dan Bongino’s separation from NRATV. While he left the video streaming service amid a round of layoffs, it is unclear whether his job was among those eliminated. Susan C. Beachy and Jack Begg contributed research.    ", "id": "5c86a65d49f0eacbf105c787", "date": "2019-03-11T18:16:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Why the N.R.A. Opposes New Domestic Abuse Legislation", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby, has settled on its next target on Capitol Hill: blocking Congress from reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, a 1994 law that assists victims of domestic and sexual violence. The House is set to vote on the legislation this week; the law expired in February. But the bill includes a new provision — aimed at curbing sexual violence by expanding law enforcement’s ability to strip domestic abusers of their guns — that the N.R.A. does not like. The measure closes the so-called boyfriend loophole by barring those convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a dating partner or those subject to a court restraining order from buying or owning firearms. Under current federal law, those convicted of domestic abuse can lose their guns if they are — or were formerly — married to their victim, live with their victim, have a child with their victim or are a parent or guardian of their victim. The proposed provision would extend those who can be convicted of domestic abuse to include stalkers and current or former boyfriends or dating partners. Jennifer Baker, a spokeswoman for the N.R.A., said that for “many of those ‘offenses’ — and I’m using air quotes here — the behavior that would qualify as a stalking offense is often not violent or threatening; it involves no personal contact whatsoever.” She argues that the new provision is “too broad and ripe for abuse.” “Like if you were sending harassing messages to somebody on Facebook, to somebody you never met or somebody you dated five years ago,” she said, adding, “How it’s written right now, you could be convicted for a misdemeanor stalking offense for a tweet that causes someone emotional distress and then you would be prohibited from owning a firearm.” Others find the N.R.A.’s argument far-fetched. “A single tweet or Facebook message, without significant other conduct, would ordinarily not be enough” to result in a conviction for stalking, said David Keck, director of the National Resource Center on Domestic Violence and Firearms, which provides guidance to law enforcement and governments on implementing firearms prohibitions, but takes no position on the new domestic violence act provision. And times have changed for the gun lobby. A wave of freshman Democrats in Congress were elected on a promise to enact new gun restrictions, and they proudly campaigned against the N.R.A. “The No. 1 way that women are being killed with guns is by their beloveds, their boyfriends, their significant others,” said one of those freshman Democrats, Representative Lucy McBath of Georgia. “I am not paying attention to the rhetoric of the N.R.A. because I can’t be distracted. What’s most important is putting forth good legislation to save as many lives as we can.” Ms. McBath’s son, Jordan Davis, was shot to death in 2012. Roughly half of all female homicide victims are killed by what experts call “intimate partners” — meaning current or former spouses or dating partners — according to a 2017 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And about half of intimate partner homicides involved dating relationships, according to Mr. Keck. The “boyfriend loophole” provision is “a refocus on should we be just looking at domestic partners or should we be looking more broadly at intimate partners?” he said. Studies also show that domestic abusers with guns inflict a disproportionate amount of violence on their partners, and that the victims are overwhelmingly female. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed by their abuser if the abuser owns a firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a gun safety group. Roughly three-quarters of all intimate partner murder victims were also victims of stalking by their partners, according to the National Center for Victims of Crime. “The share of homicides committed by dating partners has been increasing for three decades,” said Shannon Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports tighter gun laws, in response to the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut in 2012. “Women are now as likely to be killed by dating partners as by spouses with guns.” The reauthorization bill has one Republican co-sponsor, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, is urging Congress to extend the expired law for the rest of the year to continue funding services to survivors at current levels. Ms. Baker, of the N.R.A., accused Democrats of “playing politics” with the bill by inserting the so-called boyfriend provision as a “poison pill” so that Democrats can portray Republicans who vote against it as anti-woman. The N.R.A. has decided to “score” the vote on the Violence Against Women Act, meaning it will keep track and publish how lawmakers vote in an effort to either reward or defeat them in the next election. While the move is not likely to keep the bill from passing the House, it does make it more likely that the “boyfriend loophole” provision will be stripped from the act when the measure arrives in the Senate. “Anybody who votes for this should take the outrage of the N.R.A. and wear it proudly,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who drafted the provision as a separate bill and fought for it to be included in the Violence Against Women Act. Ms. Dingell — whose husband, John D. Dingell Jr., who died this year, served on the N.R.A.’s board of directors — has spoken powerfully of her experiences as a child, cowering in the closet in fear of her father, who struggled with mental illness and had a gun. “I am not someone who wants to take people’s guns away,” she said. “I have lived with a man that was an N.R.A. board member and with a man that shouldn’t have had a gun. And I want to stand up for both sides.” The move to oppose the act comes as the N.R.A.’s power is increasingly being challenged on Capitol Hill and in statehouses around the country by gun control activists, including many students who have taken up the charge after the massacre last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia passed 67 new gun safety laws in 2018, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. On Capitol Hill, the House in February passed legislation expanding background checks to cover nearly all gun purchases — the first significant gun safety measure in 25 years. Even in the Republican-controlled Senate, Senator Lindsey Graham, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, convened a hearing last week on “red flag laws” or extreme risk protection orders that allow family members and law enforcement officers to obtain court restraining orders to remove firearms from people who have been identified as a risk to themselves or others. So far, 14 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing extreme risk protection orders. Mr. Graham said he is working on legislation to create incentives for states to enact such bills. Ms. Baker said the N.R.A. agrees with the idea in theory but has not supported any of the state laws because of “serious due process concerns.” The idea has gained traction in some unlikely places — including the White House, where President Trump embraced it when Vice President Mike Pence raised it during a meeting with lawmakers after the school massacre in Parkland. “Or Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court,” Mr. Trump told Mr. Pence, adding, “because a lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”    ", "id": "5ca21fb149f0eacbf1f7b1f6", "date": "2019-04-01T14:25:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Zealand Has an N.R.A., Too. It’s Thinking About Changing Its Name.", "full_text": " They share a name, and both espouse a love of guns, but beyond that, the National Rifle Association in New Zealand has little in common with America’s most powerful gun advocacy group. The New Zealand organization, which has no formal connection to the N.R.A. in the United States, is the country’s governing body for the sport of long-range target shooting. It does not engage in the sort of political lobbying for which the American group has built such a fierce reputation. And that helps explain why the New Zealand group’s reaction to the massacre at two mosques in Christchurch last week has borne little resemblance to how the American N.R.A. has responded to recent mass shootings in the United States. On Thursday, six days after the Christchurch attacks, New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, announced a national ban on military-style semiautomatic weapons, on parts that allow guns to be modified into such weapons, and on high-capacity ammunition magazines. In the United States, calls for far less sweeping gun restrictions have drawn immediate and overwhelming resistance from the N.R.A. In New Zealand, the local gun organization will not be among those pushing against the new bans. In fact, the sorts of military-style weapons being targeted are already unwelcome in the New Zealand organization. “N.R.A. N.Z. looks after long-range precision target shooting, up to 1,000 yards,” said the group’s chairman, Ross Mason. “There’s no service rifle or military rifle shooting within the discipline, as opposed to the N.R.A.” in the United States, “which looks after all the disciplines and seems to be the political arm of the organization as well.” The New Zealand organization has considered a name change to avoid being associated with the American group. Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. In New Zealand, the process can take weeks or months. Perhaps the biggest difference between the United States and New Zealand when it comes to guns is the foundation of ownership in the first place, Mr. Mason said. “It is treated as a privilege to have a firearm here, as opposed to it being a right in America,” he said. In New Zealand, gun owners are subjected to rigorous background checks and requirements, though they are not required to register their weapons. In the United States, passing an instant background check is often all that is required for an adult to buy a firearm, although laws vary by state. Even after acquiring a license, gun owners in New Zealand continue to be subjected to scrutiny from the authorities, Mr. Mason said. “If your name comes up with a police or traffic complaint, that list gets looked at by the police firearms division,” he said. “If it looks like your name is coming up more often, they’ll come and have a word with you.” According to the New Zealand police, there are about 250,000 gun owners among the population of about five million people, and they have an estimated 1.2 million to 1.5 million firearms. The rate of gun ownership is higher in the United States, where an estimated 50 million households have firearms, and there are nearly 400 million guns in the country.", "id": "5c93e44649f0eacbf105e577", "date": "2019-03-21T19:20:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "N.R.A. Magazine Draws Criticism for ‘Target Practice’ Headline With Photo of Pelosi and Giffords", "full_text": " The March issue of the National Rifle Association’s monthly publication, The American Rifleman, features a photo of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Gabrielle Giffords, the former Democratic congresswoman from Arizona who was shot in the head during a constituent meeting in 2011. The photo, taken last month at an announcement about proposed legislation to expand background checks for firearms purchases, carried the headline in large letters: “Target Practice.” The article, written by Chris W. Cox, the executive director of the N.R.A.’s lobbying arm, described Ms. Pelosi as an “arch anti-gunner,” and said the proposal was being “deceptively marketed to the public” and was “a broadside against gun ownership in America.” On Friday, a political reporter at HuffPost, Jennifer Bendery, posted photographs of the article on Twitter, setting off rounds of criticism about the juxtaposition of the headline and photo. Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter was killed in the 2018 mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., condemned the N.R.A. and said on Twitter that the layout was an “incitement of violence.” Senator Christopher S. Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat who has been a vocal supporter of gun restrictions since the 2012 mass shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., said on Twitter that the magazine’s editorial decisions were not accidental. Representative Eric Swalwell, a Democrat of California, said on Twitter that the layout was “a call for violence” and that the N.R.A. “should face legal consequences.” “But let’s put them out of business with boycotts and ballot boxes,” he wrote. Responding to Mr. Swalwell, Representative Dan Crenshaw, a Republican from Texas, denied that the N.R.A. was targeting Democrats. “How can you claim this? Are you deliberately lying or did you just not read it?” Mr. Crenshaw wrote on Twitter. “The article is about legislation targeting gun owners, not the N.R.A. targeting Democrats. If your goal is to ensure that ‘outrage culture’ is alive and well, continuing to divide us, congrats.” The N.R.A. did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday. Peter Ambler, the executive director of Giffords, an umbrella group that supports gun violence prevention and that was named for Ms. Giffords, called the headline “reprehensible.” “Evoking threats of violence should never be tolerated,” he said. “Words matter. This headline should tell us all we need to know about how wildly out of touch the N.R.A. is with its own members and how low they will stoop to advance their damaging agenda at the expense of our safety.” A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi declined to comment, but her daughter Christine Pelosi said on Twitter that this “hate speech” should not get in the way of “common sense gun violence prevention such as #HR8,” the congressional background check bill, which is expected to come to the House floor for a vote this week. The N.R.A. magazine’s latest issue surfaced after high-profile government officials were the recent targets of veiled or explicit threats of violence. President Trump’s longtime adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., who is under indictment on charges brought by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, posted a photo of the federal judge handling his criminal case with what appeared to be the cross hairs of a gun near her head. Separately, Ms. Pelosi’s name emerged on a list of Democrats and journalists that officials said was put together by Christopher P. Hasson, a Coast Guard lieutenant whom federal investigators labeled a “domestic terrorist.” They said he planned to assassinate prominent figures.  Opinion  ", "id": "5c7316313a125f5075c0b4e5", "date": "2019-02-24T22:08:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "N.R.A. Seeks Distance From Russia as Investigations Heat Up", "full_text": " When a delegation of high-profile donors, boosters and board members from the National Rifle Association traveled to Russia in 2015, they visited a gun factory in Moscow, took in a ballet and met with members of Vladimir Putin’s inner circle. But now the N.R.A. is seeking to distance itself from the trip, after revelations that a Russian woman who helped arrange it, Maria Butina, was conspiring to infiltrate the organization. The trip has been a subject of scrutiny in at least four inquiries into the N.R.A.’s ties to Russia; questions about the N.R.A. have also surfaced in the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Newly empowered congressional Democrats are now stepping up efforts to uncover how much money the N.R.A. received from Russia, and whether the group served as a conduit for Russian funds into the 2016 Trump campaign. The N.R.A.’s chief executive, Wayne LaPierre, forbade staff members to join the delegation that went to Russia, according to the organization’s outside counsel, William A. Brewer III — “Wayne was opposed to the trip,” he said. The N.R.A.’s president at the time, Allan Cors, abandoned a plan to join the delegation, and the group refused to pay all of the related travel expenses, though it did cover some of them. “Wayne expressed concerns about this trip and suggested that I not participate,” Mr. Cors said in a statement released through the N.R.A. “Wayne did not want any misconception that this was an official trip. Frankly, I had similar concerns.” Given Mr. LaPierre’s power within the organization, it is unclear how such a trip would have proceeded at all despite his opposition to it. The trip was organized by David Keene, a former N.R.A. president who was close to Ms. Butina, and who had his own interests in Russia. An email between a member of the delegation and Paul Erickson, a Republican operative who is Ms. Butina’s boyfriend, suggests that Mr. Keene, who was then the opinion editor of The Washington Times, hoped to secure an interview with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, according to people familiar with the email. Mr. Keene also later explored a deal to import Russian gas with Ms. Butina’s help, though it never appeared close to fruition. Mr. Erickson’s lawyer, William H. Hurd, had no comment on the email, but noted that his client had not gone on the trip and said, “Anyone who thinks that a freedom-loving group like the N.R.A. is going to get all cozy with Vladimir Putin is living in Fantasyland.” A woman answering the phone at Mr. Keene’s home referred calls to the N.R.A. Also along for the Russia trip were Joseph R. Gregory, co-chairman of the N.R.A.’s Golden Ring of Freedom, a group for donors of $1 million or more; and Pete Brownell, then the organization’s first vice president, who would later become president. Congressional scrutiny of the N.R.A. has intensified since Ms. Butina pleaded guilty last month to conspiring to act as a foreign agent, in a deal with the United States attorney’s office in Washington. She admitted to being part of a Russian-backed effort to use the N.R.A. to influence American politics. Two Senate committees are also investigating the N.R.A.’s ties to Russia, as is the House Intelligence Committee, and the Federal Election Commission initiated a preliminary inquiry last year. Three past N.R.A. presidents — Mr. Keene, Mr. Cors and Mr. Brownell — have been asked for interviews in the inquiries. A critical question for investigators is the extent of the N.R.A.’s financial ties to Russia. While the N.R.A. has turned over thousands of pages of records in the Senate inquiries, those documents do not include the organization’s closely held donor records; it is possible, however, that federal investigators have obtained the organization’s tax records from the Internal Revenue Service. Responding to questions from the Senate Finance Committee, the N.R.A. said last year that since 2015 it had brought in roughly $2,500 “from people associated with Russian addresses” or Russian nationals living in the United States. But that left open the question of money that may have come from shell companies or other less overt sources. “The N.R.A. should provide the financial documents and other records necessary to explain the scope of their activities,” Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon and the committee’s ranking member, said in a statement. “The prospect of N.R.A. or N.R.A. officials abusing nonprofit status to work with a hostile regime and undermine our democracy is central to my investigation.” The N.R.A.’s outside counsel, Mr. Brewer, said that after an internal review, the group “believes that no foreign money made its way into the organization for use in the 2016 presidential election.” Any suggestion that the group took in Russian money, he said, “fails to appreciate the steps the N.R.A. takes to guard against such an unwanted event.” With Democrats now controlling the House, an inquiry led by the House Intelligence Committee has new life. “We had begun to pursue this investigative thread at least a year ago, and were stymied by the then-majority,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff, the California Democrat who now leads the committee. “We were really not able to determine how the Russians used the N.R.A. as a back channel or look into allegations that the Russians may have funneled money through the N.R.A. to influence the election. Those issues remain of deep interest to us.” Mr. Keene spent several years building ties with Russia. He befriended Aleksandr P. Torshin, a Russian politician close to Mr. Putin who worked closely with Ms. Butina. The trip was ostensibly an effort by Mr. Keene and Ms. Butina to link efforts to advance gun rights in Russia and the United States, and was partly funded by Right to Bear Arms, an organization Ms. Butina founded. Members of the N.R.A. met with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, as well as Dmitry Rogozin, who at the time was Russia’s deputy prime minister and was under sanction by the Obama administration for his role in the Russian occupation of Crimea. A number of photos were taken along the way, at locales that included a Moscow hunting club, and posted on social media. Like Mr. Keene, some others on the trip had an interest in Russia beyond the N.R.A. Jim Liberatore, chief executive of Outdoor Sportsman Group, which operates the Outdoor Channel and has financial ties to the N.R.A., had an idea for a reality show starring Mr. Putin. After meeting Ms. Butina on the trip, he hired her as a $5,000-a-month consultant to help pursue the show, though he gave up on it a few months later. Mr. Brownell had expanded his family-owned gun accessory retailer, Brownells, into Russia in 2015, before the trip, licensing its name to a local company and collecting a percentage of sales. Brownells has similar deals in more than a dozen other countries, a company spokesman said. After the N.R.A. declined to pay some of the trip’s costs, Mr. Brownell covered nearly $14,000 in travel expenses for another participant, the former Milwaukee Sheriff David A. Clarke, Jr., public records show. The trip has not been the only recent subject of controversy for the N.R.A. There have been signs of financial strain, including reports that the organization cut perks like free coffee. Gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. in the 2018 election cycle, upending what had become the typical political order. The group is also locked in a legal battle with New York State, which barred it from offering insurance to gun owners involved in shootings, an important source of revenue for the organization. Mr. Brownell abruptly stepped down as president last year, halfway through the traditional tenure served by his predecessors, catching the organization off guard. Even his successor, Oliver North, could not hide his surprise. “I did not expect that this was going to be happening,” Mr. North told NRATV, the group’s online video channel. Mr. Brownell, for his part, said, “The position demands full-time attention today, where in the past it was honorific in nature.” He added, “I wanted to devote more attention to my family and to my growing business.” Susan Beachy contributed research.    ", "id": "5c4f764e3a125f5075c06c32", "date": "2019-01-28T21:38:20+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "I Detest the N.R.A. What Should I Do With My Gun?", "full_text": " The Ethicist As a gun owner who abhors the ‘‘slippery slope’’ philosophy of the N.R.A., every new mass shooting sickens me. I would like to sell one of my three weapons and give the proceeds to March for Our Lives or Everytown for Gun Safety. Is it better to: 1) Sell it knowing the $750-$1,000 would do some good; 2) Keep the gun knowing it won’t be used; or 3) Destroy it/surrender it to the police for disposal? Name Withheld But the case against (1) is that your check, which isn’t going to make the difference between success and failure for either of these gun-control groups, scarcely changes the likelihood of future gun deaths, while selling the gun marginally increases the likelihood that it will end up being used in a crime. As for (2), you can’t be absolutely sure that a gun won’t cause harm just because it’s in your house. For one thing, someone might break in and steal it; for another, you might use it against yourself. Suicide, remember, accounts for a majority of gun-related deaths. If you went for (3), you could render the gun harmless by having it destroyed, but doing so wouldn’t much change the likelihood of future gun deaths, either. One reason that I have misgivings about what’s been called ‘‘quandary ethics’’ — ethics conceived of as solving puzzles like these — is that, as in this case, it can be close to impossible to calculate the costs and benefits of the various outcomes you consider. A deeper problem is that there are typically options you haven’t considered. In this case, you could wait for a gun-buyback program — they’ve had these recently in many cities — and send the money (which would be less than the market value of your weapon) to one of these organizations, thus both supporting gun control and making sure that the weapon won’t be used for malign purposes. For that matter, you could throw yourself into the work of one of these organizations, which are going to succeed only if more of their supporters aren’t content with just sending them money. The influence of the N.R.A. can’t be reduced to the power of the purse; though its political expenditures far exceed those of gun-control groups, its finances are surprisingly precarious. And note that the labor sector, say, hugely outspends it, while its political power has seemed to diminish. Many political experts would say that the N.R.A.’s ability to mobilize its millions of members has a lot to do with its efficacy. If gun control matters to you, your support shouldn’t be limited to your checkbook. I agreed to sponsor a cousin’s immigration application, which involved affirming I can and will provide the applicant with a financial safety net for seven years. I’d met the cousin only once, but I count his aunts among my favorite relatives and was told by his father that he is financially independent, hardworking and eager to contribute to his new homeland. With the process underway, my cousin’s father came to visit, and the two insisted on conveying their gratitude by hosting my family at a brunch. Somehow the subject of Trump came up. Though my husband and I did not vote for the president, we maintain relationships with friends and family who did. Yet hearing the young man that we put on the road to citizenship express his admiration for Trump and his anti-immigration policies struck us as odd.  I prodded ever so gently: At what point should the president close the gate — before or after your papers are finalized? Without a hint of irony, he clarified that, of course, he was referring to the wrong kind of immigrants.  Hours later, I couldn’t shake the notion that we’d made a terrible mistake. Yes, my husband and I refuse to allow politics to define our social circle, but could we remain neutral, knowing that we’d inadvertently recruited a new supporter of Trump’s views on immigration, which we regard as racist — or worse? And if we decide that we cannot, should we break with our extended family by revoking our support of my cousin’s application? Or could we let the cousin know that we find his views on immigration hypocritical and make our ongoing support of his application contingent on his joining the 50 percent of Americans who choose not to exercise their right to vote? Name Withheld I’m not sure you’ve found a great way to model social tolerance. Your cousin sounds pretty blinkered in his views, I’ll grant. But adding one more bigot to the American population isn’t going to make a difference in our politics. And if he ends up, as is most likely, living in one of our great, culturally plural metropolises, his views on immigration may well evolve. Either way, it would be wrong to try to blackmail him into not exercising the right to vote — and ineffectual, because such an agreement would be unenforceable. Nor is it fair, at this point, to pull out from your affidavit of support, unless you think that something you were told and that you therefore attested to was substantially untrue. You do have every right to tell him — like anyone else who expresses political views you consider odious — why you think he’s wrong. Given what you have done for him, he owes it to you to pay attention to what you say. But if your sponsoring your cousin was right, it didn’t become wrong when you learned about his opinions. The point can be broadened. Policies you support in principle aren’t invalidated when their beneficiaries turn out to have vexing or perverse views. We don’t withdraw Social Security Disability Insurance from those who think that its other beneficiaries are largely wastrels. We don’t deny Medicare coverage to those who are skeptical of the program. We can’t give up on public-health measures to reduce suicide simply because suicide rates are highest in ‘‘red state’’ regions that aren’t inclined to back such measures. And a partisan who favors only the expanded immigration of people inclined to support her party isn’t interested in immigration reform; she’s interested in allies. Your cousin’s views, as I say, may evolve; perhaps yours will, too. My stepdaughter-in-law confided in me that she is planning on leaving my stepson. They have a young child. She also informed me that she’s gay. She asked me to be discreet with this information, but I feel compelled to do something; I don’t feel that it’s fair for my stepson to be hit out of the blue. Is there a way for me to encourage her to talk to her husband, or should I say something directly to him? I’m fine with keeping the information about her sexuality secret. It’s more her plan to dump him that is weighing on me. I’m concerned not only for his well-being but also for how this secret could affect my relationship with him if he finds out I knew and didn’t say anything. Name Withheld Let me invoke a rule I’ve posited before: In normal circumstances, when someone tells you something with the implicit expectation that you won’t pass it on, you shouldn’t break that confidence without first telling her. The confidence sharer has the right to try to dissuade you and the right to pre-empt you by passing on the information and managing the consequences herself. So tell your stepdaughter-in-law what you’re thinking. And what you’re thinking is correct: Your stepson has a right to know that she’s planning to leave him. She should come clean. And if she won’t, you should. (A discussion of her reasons should indeed remain between the couple.) You’re also correct to fear that your relationship with your stepson could be damaged by your reticence: He would be within his rights to consider it a betrayal. Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His books include “Cosmopolitanism,” “The Honor Code“ and “The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity.“ To submit a query: Send an email to ethicist@nytimes.com; or send mail to The Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. (Include a daytime phone number.)", "id": "5c99ea6c49f0eacbf105f0c7", "date": "2019-03-26T09:00:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "House Expands Domestic Violence Gun Controls in Rebuke to N.R.A.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The House on Thursday rebuffed a furious lobbying campaign by the National Rifle Association and approved a revamped Violence Against Women Act that would expand law enforcement’s ability to restrict gun purchases by convicted domestic abusers. The legislation passed easily, 263 to 158, but the divided vote came on what was once a broadly bipartisan measure first passed in 1994. In recent years, partisan rancor over efforts to expand the protections of the legislation have clouded efforts to renew it, and this year, the divide was over gun control. The provisions would close the so-called boyfriend loophole and bar those under a restraining order or who were convicted of abusing, assaulting or stalking a domestic partner from buying guns. The N.R.A. seized on the new measures and warned Congress that it would track and publish how lawmakers voted, hoping to intimidate Republicans and Democrats in Republican-leaning districts. “Do not let the N.R.A. bully you,” Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, urged her colleagues before the vote, noting that her recently deceased husband, former Representative John Dingell Jr., also a Democrat, was a member of the organization. Thirty-three Republicans bucked the threat and voted with the Democratic majority in favor of the legislation — among them, Representative Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, the sole Republican sponsor of the reauthorization. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, Republican of Nebraska, voted present. Democrats, including all of the freshman members who won in districts swept by Donald J. Trump in 2016, stood up to the gun lobby, with only one — Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota — voting no. Many in the new majority campaigned on tightening access to guns, and they appeared to embrace condemnation from the gun lobby as a badge of honor. “Lawmakers should be reading the tea leaves,” said Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a group that supports restricting gun laws. “In the midterm elections, it was gun safety that got people to the polls.” Other supporters of the legislation argued that the gun provisions made up only a fraction of the protections offered by the bill, and included invaluable resources for survivors. “This wasn’t a gun bill — this is a bill to protect women,” said Lisette Johnson, a member of the Everytown Survivor Network and a survivor of domestic abuse. “This passing today is really a huge support for women and keeping them safer.” Republicans had advocated a clean one-year extension of the current law, which expired in February, arguing that new elements of the legislation were controversial and overreached — in particular, the gun restrictions and language offering additional protections to transgender people. “Can we stop playing political games at the expense of vulnerable women?” asked Representative Elise Stefanik, Republican of New York, before the vote, arguing that the bill put forward by Democrats would “collect dust in the Senate.” (Democrats, who booed vigorously during her speech, rejected her motion.) The vote highlighted the stark contrasts between the new Democratic majority, with its historic number of women, and the Republican minority, which has struggled to attract female voters and to increase the number of conservative women holding office on Capitol Hill. Democrats framed opposition to the legislation’s renewal as a denial of protections for survivors of abuse, efforts to prevent domestic violence and support for law enforcement. Representative Sharice Davids, Democrat of Kansas and one of the first two Native American women elected to Congress in November, presided over the final vote on the measure, which contains a number of protections for women on tribal lands — including a new provision that would allow tribal courts to prosecute nonnative people accused of domestic crimes or dating violence on tribal lands. A number of Democrats, including Ms. Dingell and Representative Katie Porter of California, offered passionate defenses of the legislation, repeatedly drawing on their own experiences as survivors of domestic abuse. “I know that fear, I know that terror and I just want to try to save another family from going through that terror,” Ms. Dingell said at a news conference on Wednesday, recalling being afraid as a child that her father, who had mental illness and owned a gun, would harm her mother or her siblings. “Why would you not close that loophole?” Republicans, beyond objecting to what they said was an infringement on gun ownership, argued that the measure contained other proposals that were too broad for a law intended to protect survivors of assault. In previous hearings and speeches, they had singled out provisions that would expand protections for transgender people and require the Bureau of Prisons to consider the safety and protection of transgender prisoners when giving housing assignments. “We find ourselves debating a VAWA reauthorization act that is literally a Christmas tree of progressive liberal policy objectives, rather than an honest approach to reforming and updating such an important law,” said Representative Debbie Lesko, Republican of Arizona, who is a survivor of domestic abuse. The legislation heads to the Senate, where Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Joni Ernst, Republican of Iowa, have said they will lead efforts to pass a version. It is unclear how many of the new gun provisions in the House legislation will prevail in the Republican-controlled Senate. “There are a number of improvements in the House bill that I think should be in our version, including preserving improvements already made in the 2013 reauthorization,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement after the vote. “I hope the Senate will move quickly. This is an important law and one the Senate should take very seriously and act upon expeditiously.”   ", "id": "5ca62f9e49f0eacbf1f80eae", "date": "2019-04-04T16:22:28+0000"}]