[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘Medicare for All’ May Not Be Good for All", "full_text": " letter A reader cautions that Medicare does not mean free coverage for all medical care. To the Editor: Re “Eager to Sink Medicare Plan, Lobbies Unite” (front page, Feb. 24): Do proponents of “Medicare for all” really want that, or something else? I think a lot of the public who want free or subsidized health care plans might be disappointed if Medicare were extended to everyone. Medicare is not free health care. Nor is it the universal coverage that some countries like Britain have. It is insurance that covers some, but not all, health care expenses.  Anyone who signs up for Medicare must pay a premium for Part B (medical services) coverage. In addition, most people purchase a Medicare supplement (Medigap) plan from a private insurance company to cover deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs. Many also purchase a separate Part D plan to cover some of the costs of prescription drugs. Eye care and dental care are generally not covered. And, of course, Medicare, designed for an older population, does not cover maternity care and contraception. Total premiums can come to $300 or more per month. Medicare is not just like a group, employer-provided or individual plan that many people envision when they think of insurance. While it may be a good plan for those 65 and over, it may not fit the needs of everyone. Rebecca S. FahrlanderOmahaThe writer is an adjunct professor of psychology and sociology at the University of Nebraska, Omaha.", "id": "5c81743949f0eacbf105be82", "date": "2019-03-07T19:41:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Medicare Aims to Expand Coverage of Cancer Care. But Is It Enough?", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — In a major test case, Medicare is poised to cover a promising but expensive new type of cancer treatment, with significant restrictions meant to hold down the cost. Cancer patients, doctors and drug companies are urging the Trump administration to remove the restrictions and broaden coverage so more patients can benefit from the treatment, known as CAR T cell therapy, or CAR-T. But insurance companies are pushing for the restrictions. The treatment is manufactured specifically for each patient, and many more such “personalized medicines” are in the pipeline. Medicare’s final decision, expected in the next few weeks, will influence commercial insurers and state Medicaid programs, which often follow its lead. Medicare and other insurers typically pay for drugs as they are used, from month to month and year to year. By contrast, the CAR-T treatments generate high costs up front, but the benefits could last for years. The Food and Drug Administration has approved two CAR-T products to treat certain blood cancers: Kymriah, made by Novartis, with a list price of $373,000 or $475,000, depending on the type of cancer, and Yescarta, made by Gilead Sciences, with a list price of $373,000. The treatments have been remarkably effective in some patients who had a dismal prognosis after exhausting other options. Researchers around the country are conducting more than 450 clinical trials to explore other uses of CAR-T medicines that work in similar ways. The Trump administration has proposed covering CAR-T therapy when it is prescribed by a cancer specialist and given in a hospital to Medicare patients whose cancer has not responded to other treatments like chemotherapy and radiation. Medicare would also cover the treatment for patients whose cancer returns, causing a relapse after a period of improvement. Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, has described CAR-T as “an entirely new approach to treating serious and even life-threatening diseases.” Dr. Francis S. Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, said that harnessing the power of a patient’s immune system in this way was a “marvel of modern medicine.” But “because of the need to personalize the preparation of cells for every patient,” he said, “costs are quite high, and it could be truly challenging to scale up use of the technology.” Officials will increasingly confront such challenges as they try to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries have access to the latest treatments at an affordable cost. CAR-T therapy sounds like science fiction. Immune cells — T cells — are removed from a patient’s blood, sent to a laboratory where they are genetically engineered to recognize and attack cancer cells, and then sent back to the hospital for infusion into the patient. The total cost of treatment, including the CAR-T infusion, doctors’ services and hospital stays, can easily exceed $750,000. “This looks like a big price tag,” said Dr. Caron A. Jacobson, director of a cell therapy program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. “But when you actually consider what you are paying for over the course of someone’s lifetime, and you think about the cost of other therapies that this is replacing, it actually is not astronomical.” There is no national Medicare policy for covering CAR T cell therapy. The request for a Medicare coverage decision came from one of the nation’s largest insurers, UnitedHealth Group, which expressed concern that “CAR-T therapies could create significant financial risks” for the government and for private Medicare Advantage plans. UnitedHealth is the largest provider of Medicare Advantage plans, with about five million people enrolled in its plans. The private plans receive a fixed monthly payment from the government to provide the full range of services covered by Medicare. America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group for insurers, also urged caution, saying, “There is currently limited evidence for CAR-T therapies.” But Bonnie Falbo of Charlottesville, Va., a caregiver for her 70-year-old husband, who has multiple myeloma, said: “This treatment is one that could save his life one day. Immunotherapy is the future of cancer care. Approving payment for this therapy right now will save the lives of patients who have run out of other options.” Advocates for patients and physician groups said the coverage policy proposed by the Trump administration was too limited and could delay lifesaving treatment for cancer patients who were very ill. “We have a new therapy, a result of years of research, and it has been approved by the F.D.A.,” said Kirsten A. Sloan, a vice president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. “Let’s make sure people have access to it. Let the doctor decide which patients should be eligible. A patient’s health care provider is in the best position to determine when and whether a patient will benefit from CAR T cell therapy and should not be limited by a narrow coverage policy.” Ted Okon, the executive director of the Community Oncology Alliance, an advocacy group for cancer doctors and patients, said the coverage criteria proposed by the Trump administration were “much more restrictive” than the uses of CAR-T therapy permitted in the F.D.A.-approved label. Moreover, Mr. Okon said, coverage should not be limited to patients treated at a hospital, as the government proposed. “CAR-T treatment has been slowly moving to the outpatient setting,” he said. “Many community oncology practices have the experience and capabilities to administer CAR-T treatment, saving money for patients and Medicare.” Hospitals providing CAR-T therapy said they were trying to figure out how to pay for it. Charles N. Kahn III, the president and chief executive of the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents investor-owned hospitals, said they faced large financial losses in providing the treatment to Medicare patients. “This is a brave new world,” Mr. Kahn said. “No one anticipated such an extraordinary expense when Medicare’s hospital payment formulas were adopted.” Under the Trump administration proposal, Medicare would pay for CAR-T therapy in patients who have “relapsed or refractory cancer” that has resisted other treatments. “CAR T cell therapy shows promise,” the administration said in a 39,000-word decision memo, but “the evidence is inadequate to confidently conclude” that it will improve health outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries. To date, it said, “few clinical trials on CAR T cell therapy have been performed, and those data available have limited participation by Medicare beneficiaries.” More study is needed, it said. So Medicare would cover the procedure only if hospitals agreed to monitor patients, enroll them in a study or “registry” and report detailed data on their medical condition and quality of life for at least two years after treatment. Doctors and scientific researchers raised several concerns. The eligibility requirements “may exclude some patients who could benefit from treatment,” said Cynthia A. Bens, a senior vice president of the Personalized Medicine Coalition, an education and advocacy group. Dr. Roy L. Silverstein, the president of the American Society of Hematology, said it was “shortsighted to limit coverage to those patients who have not responded to chemotherapy or have relapsed after chemotherapy.” “I can predict with pretty good certainty that there will be indications not too far in the future for using these treatments as part of the initial therapeutic plan for patients with certain kinds of cancers,” Dr. Silverstein said.", "id": "5cb1a56f49f0eacbf1f83b69", "date": "2019-04-13T09:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What Would ‘Medicare for All’ Do to Medicare?", "full_text": " The first legislative proposal of the year on the subject could help shape the terms of the debate. The basic idea of “Medicare for all” is that all Americans should get access to the popular, government-run program. But a new bill toward this goal, the first introduced in the current Congress, would also drastically reshape Medicare itself. The bill, from Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington and more than 100 Democratic House co-sponsors, would greatly expand Medicare and eliminate the current structure of premiums, co-payments and deductibles. Americans would be able to see a doctor and take medicines without paying money beyond the taxes that would support the program. (The precise source of that tax revenue is, so far, unspecified.) The new Medicare envisioned by the bill would cover new benefits, including dental, vision and long-term nursing home care. It would be wrong to think of the Jayapal bill as simply expanding the current Medicare program to cover more people and more benefits. It also would make major changes to the way doctors and hospitals are paid. This would change not just how Americans get their insurance, but it could also reshape the health care system in ways that are difficult to predict. The Jayapal bill, to be introduced Wednesday morning, has no immediate chance of passing. Even if it should make it through committee and to a floor vote, it would not be welcomed warmly in the majority Republican Senate or by President Trump, who has turned away from his onetime enthusiasm for single-payer health care approaches.  But as interest in approaches to Medicare for all grows among Democratic legislators and presidential candidates, the detailed proposal is likely to help shape the debate about what kind of changes Democrats hope to make if they retake power.  Currently, Medicare (as well as most private insurance) pays most doctors and hospitals for each service performed. There’s one fee for a standard checkup, and another for appendicitis surgery, for example.  Medicare determines prices for those various services, and medical providers are paid for performing them. Then those doctors and hospitals are largely free to allocate the money they make as they see fit. For-profit hospitals may return some of the dollars to their investors. Nonprofit hospitals might use them to buy new gadgets or upgrade to private rooms — or provide charity care for people without insurance. The Jayapal bill would upend that system. Instead of paying hospitals per treatment, Medicare would try to come up with an appropriate lump sum payment for every hospital and nursing home in the country — what the bill calls a “global budget” payment.  Hospitals would then determine how to offer the care its patients need under that budget. There are some release valves, like an emergency fund in case of an epidemic. The bill would also place restrictions on how hospitals could use the money. They wouldn’t be allowed to spend it on political donations or marketing, for example, or on bonuses to employees who hit productivity targets.  A separate fund, managed by another part of the reimagined Medicare, would provide funding for capital improvements. A hospital would not be allowed to, say, buy an M.R.I. machine with the money from its global budget. This is similar to how Canadian provinces pay their hospitals. And there is one good model for the system in the United States: In Maryland, hospitals receive this type of budget for most of the care they provide.  But it would be a big change from the way Medicare works now. Hospital budgets would require a kind of government process that doesn’t exist now: a Medicare board that would decide the appropriate payment to every hospital and the set of priorities for hospital and nursing home capital improvements. The government would no longer set payment for each emergency room visit or knee replacement, but it would have to decide how much to pay one hospital versus another. “This is really an important budgetary tool for cost containment,” Ms. Jayapal said in a conference call with reporters Tuesday. She described the change as simplifying Medicare’s payment system. The bill imagines all this change happening very quickly. Within a year, the first budgets would be set for every health care institution in the country. By the end of two years, the system would be ready to cover the care of nearly every American. (A different proposal, introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders in 2017, would take four years to switch all Americans from the current system to single-payer.) This change in budgeting is not intrinsic to a single-payer system. It is possible to imagine a Medicare for all system that instead sets prices for individual medical services, the way Medicare does now. But the Jayapal approach also wants to make changes under the hood of Medicare to contain costs and change some of the incentives around what patients receive.  Different bills will most likely propose different changes. Nearly every single-payer advocate wants to use the system to reduce the cost of health care in the United States — and saving money will almost certainly mean changes to the status quo. The proposed Medicare changes are a good reminder that, while many politicians use the phrase Medicare for all, the title remains more of a buzzword than a precise description. The Jayapal bill clearly embraces the “for all” part of the message. But its “Medicare” would be a very different system, and its differences could ripple beyond insurance to reshape the kind of health care Americans receive. Margot Sanger-Katz is a domestic correspondent and writes about health care for The Upshot. She was previously a reporter at National Journal and The Concord Monitor and an editor at Legal Affairs and the Yale Alumni Magazine.  @sangerkatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c75d58c49f0eacbf105a52b", "date": "2019-02-27T00:09:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Medicare and the Trump Budget: Differing Views", "full_text": " letters The White House responds positively to an editorial about reform, though advocacy and hospital groups disagree. To the Editor: Re “Not All Medicare Cuts Are Bad” (editorial, March 26): While your editorial board and the Trump administration may not always see eye to eye, this editorial finds important areas of agreement.  The president’s 2020 budget takes thoughtful steps to strengthen and protect the Medicare program for America’s seniors. In fact, the budget does not harm beneficiaries. It does not cut their benefits, nor does it increase aggregate out-of-pocket spending.  Instead, the budget eliminates waste and inefficiencies in the Medicare program, in line with the president’s campaign promise. One prominent example cited in the editorial is our push toward site-neutral payment. Why should taxpayers or seniors pay higher rates for a service at an outpatient hospital clinic than for the same service at a doctor’s office?  For example, seniors pay about $34 for a clinic visit at an outpatient hospital and about $15 for the same services at a physician’s office. This push is not a one-off occurrence; rather, it is something we have worked to embed in the system through the yearly payment process over the last two years.  We also publicly laid out the president’s philosophy on site neutrality in the December report, prepared by several federal departments, on “Reforming America’s Healthcare System Through Choice and Competition.” As you noted, policymakers in both parties have failed to focus on managing the cost of care, and on reducing or eliminating bad incentives and inefficiencies in our system. Rather than take partisan shots at serious reforms intended to manage costs while protecting our seniors, we invite Democrats and Republicans to come together to work on common-sense reforms.  Senators Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Brian Schatz, who, as you note, oppose our plan, should know that our doors are always open if they wish to partner on reforms to protect American seniors and taxpayers. Joe GroganWashingtonThe writer is director of the White House Domestic Policy Council. To the Editor: Our organizations agree that conserving Medicare resources to preserve the program for generations to come is an important goal. But we cannot support a budget that impedes access to care, and the president’s budget would do just that. Among the problematic Medicare provisions are those that would make it harder for beneficiaries to obtain care by curtailing appeal rights, increasing out-of-pocket costs and expanding prior authorization.  Additionally, provider cuts of the magnitude proposed would likely be impossible to carry out without negatively affecting beneficiaries. And unlike the Affordable Care Act’s reimbursement changes, the resulting savings would not be reinvested in efforts to expand and improve coverage. Notably, these Medicare spending reductions tell only part of the story. Older adults and people with disabilities look to a constellation of programs to stay healthy, many of which — in particular Medicaid and the health care law — would see steep cuts under the administration’s budget. People with Medicare and their families deserve better. Working together, we can find ways to reduce health care costs without jeopardizing Americans’ health and economic security. Joe Baker Judith SteinMr. Baker is president of the Medicare Rights Center, and Ms. Stein is executive director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy. To the Editor: You call for slashing the “bonus payment” that hospitals receive for the outpatient services they provide. Hospital-based outpatient services are reimbursed at a higher rate than physician offices because of the vast overhead costs associated with hospitals staying open 24/7 and never turning away patients.  Given those major cost drivers, the notion that the level of reimbursement for hospital-based outpatient services constitutes an unnecessary bonus payment is befuddling. Many financially struggling inner-city and rural hospitals can barely sustain their outpatient services right now. Cutting their Medicare reimbursement for those essential services will severely compromise access to care for the vulnerable communities they serve, many of which have no other outpatient health care options. Kenneth E. RaskeNew YorkThe writer is president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.", "id": "5c9d17c049f0eacbf105f98f", "date": "2019-03-28T18:50:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘Medicare for All’: The Impossible Dream", "full_text": " There’s no plausible route from here to there. Opinion Columnist The Brits and Canadians I know certainly love their single-payer health care systems. If one of their politicians suggested they should switch to the American health care model, they’d throw him out the window. So single-payer health care, or in our case “Medicare for all,” is worth taking seriously. I’ve just never understood how we get from here to there, how we transition from our current system to the one Bernie Sanders has proposed and Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris and others have endorsed. Despite differences between individual proposals, the broad outlines of Medicare for all are easy to grasp. We’d take the money we’re spending on private health insurance and private health care, and we’d shift it over to the federal government through higher taxes in some form. Then, since health care would be a public monopoly, the government could set prices and force health care providers to accept current Medicare payment rates. Medicare reimburses hospitals at 87 percent of costs while private insurance reimburses at 145 percent of costs. Charles Blahous, a former Social Security and Medicare public trustee, estimates that under the Sanders plan, the government could pay about 40 percent less than what private insurers now pay for treatments. If this version of Medicare for all worked as planned, everybody would be insured, health care usage would rise sharply because it would be free, without even a co-payment, and America would spend less over all on health care. It sounds good. But the trick is in the transition. First, patients would have to transition. Right now, roughly 181 million Americans receive health insurance through employers. About 70 percent of these people say they are happy with their coverage. Proponents of Medicare for all are saying: We’re going to take away the insurance you have and are happy with, and we’re going to replace it with a new system you haven’t experienced yet because, trust us, we’re the federal government! The insurance companies would have to transition. Lots of people work for and serve this industry. All-inclusive public health care would destroy this industry beyond recognition, and those people would have to find other work. Hospitals would have to transition. In many small cities the local health care system is the biggest employer. As Reihan Salam points out in The Atlantic, the United States has far more fully stocked hospitals relative to its population and much lower bed occupancy than comparable European nations have. If you live in a place where the health system is a big employer, think what happens when that sector takes a sudden, huge pay cut. The ripple effects would be immediate — like a small deindustrialization. Doctors would have to transition. Salary losses would differ by specialty, but imagine you came out of med school saddled with debt and learn that your payments are going to be down by, say 30 percent. Similar shocks would ripple to other health care workers. The American people would have to transition. Americans are more decentralized, diverse and individualistic than people in the nations with single-payer systems. They are more suspicious of centralized government and tend to dislike higher taxes. The Sanders plan would increase federal spending by about $32.6 trillion over its first 10 years, according to a Mercatus Center study that Blahous led. Compare that with the Congressional Budget Office’s projection for the entire 2019 fiscal year budget, $4.4 trillion. That kind of sticker shock is why a plan for single-payer in Vermont collapsed in 2014 and why Colorado voters overwhelmingly rejected one in 2016. It’s why legislators in California killed one. In this plan, the taxes are upfront, the purported savings are down the line. Once they learn that Medicare for all would eliminate private insurance and raise taxes, only 37 percent of Americans support it, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation survey. In 2010, Republicans scored an enormous electoral victory because voters feared that the government was taking over their health care, even though Obamacare really didn’t. Now, under Medicare for all, it really would. This seems like an excellent way to re-elect Donald Trump. The government would also have to transition. Medicare for all works only if politicians ruthlessly enforce those spending cuts. But in our system of government, members of Congress are terrible at fiscal discipline. They are quick to cater to special interest groups, terrible at saying no. To make single-payer really work, we’d probably have to scrap the U.S. Congress and move to a more centralized parliamentary system. Finally, patient expectations would have to transition. Today, getting a doctor’s appointment is annoying but not onerous. In Canada, the median wait time between seeing a general practitioner and a specialist is 8.7 weeks; between a G.P. referral and an orthopedic surgeon, it’s nine months. That would take some adjusting. If America were a blank slate, Medicare for all would be a plausible policy, but we are not a blank slate. At this point, the easiest way to get to a single-payer system would probably be to go back to 1776 and undo that whole American Revolution thing. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks ", "id": "5c7dc05e49f0eacbf105b524", "date": "2019-03-05T00:17:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "If You Do Medicare Sign-Up Wrong, It Will Cost You", "full_text": " Retiring Tony Farrell turned 65 four years ago — the age when most people shift their health coverage to Medicare. But he was still employed and covered by his company’s group insurance. When his birthday came around, he began researching whether he needed to move to Medicare, and determined he could stick with his employer’s plan, said Mr. Farrell, a marketing and merchandising executive for specialty retailers. At the time, he was working for a company that makes infomercials in San Francisco. Four months later, Mr. Farrell was laid off, but he kept the company’s health insurance for himself and his family under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (Cobra), the federal law that allows employees to pay for coverage as long as 36 months after a worker leaves a job. “I just thought, this is great — the coverage won’t change,” he recalled. “I was just relying on my own logic and experience, and felt that if I didn’t need a government service, I wouldn’t sign up for it.” But Mr. Farrell unknowingly ran afoul of one of the complex rules that govern the transition to Medicare — and now he is paying the price. Medicare requires enrollees to sign up during a limited window before and after their 65th birthday. Failing to do so leads to stiff late-enrollment penalties that continue for life, and potentially expensive, long waits for coverage to begin. There is one major exception: People who are still employed when they turn 65 can stay with employer-provided group coverage. What Mr. Farrell missed is that Cobra coverage did not qualify him for that exemption, since he was no longer actively employed. He didn’t realize his error for more than a year, when the end of his Cobra coverage approached and he began looking into Medicare. The mistake means that he will pay a late-enrollment penalty equal to 20 percent of the Part B base premium for the rest of his life. This year, the penalty increases his monthly standard premium of $135.50 to $162.60. The transition to Medicare from other types of insurance is plagued by problems like Mr. Farrell’s — and, so far, there isn’t much of an early warning system to alert people close to retirement age of the pitfalls. These complex rules also affect people moving from Affordable Care Act exchange plans and retiree health coverage. And workers who use Health Savings Accounts in conjunction with high-deductible employer insurance need to watch out for tax issues related to timing. Medicare enrollment in Part A (hospitalization) and Part B (outpatient services) is automatic if you have claimed Social Security benefits before your 65th birthday — your Medicare card will arrive in the mail and coverage begins the first day of the month in which you turn 65. There is no premium charged for Part A in most cases, and you may be able to turn down Part B at that point without incurring late-enrollment penalties if you are still working and receive your primary insurance through work. If you have not yet applied for Social Security, signing up for Medicare requires proactive steps to avoid problems. Medicare offers an Initial Enrollment Period around your 65th birthday. If you miss that window, you will be subject to a late enrollment surcharge equal to 10 percent of the standard Part B premium for each 12 months of delay — a penalty that continues forever. That can really add up. In 2017, 1.3 percent of Part B enrollees paid penalties (about 701,000 beneficiaries), according to the Congressional Research Service. On average, their total premiums were 31 percent higher than what they would have been. Medicare’s prescription drug program (Part D) comes with a much less onerous late enrollment penalty, equal to 1 percent of the national base beneficiary premium for each month of delay. In 2019, the base monthly premium is $33.19, so a seven-month delay would tack $2.32 onto your plan’s premium. Late enrollment also exposes you to significant gaps while waiting for Medicare coverage. Medicare has three enrollment periods. The Initial Enrollment Period includes the three months before you turn 65, the month of your 65th birthday and the three months after you turn 65. Coverage begins one to three months later, depending on when you enroll. For people transitioning from employer coverage at other ages, a Special Enrollment Period is available for eight months after other insurance ends, and coverage begins the first month after you enroll. But late enrollees must wait for a General Enrollment Period that runs from Jan. 1 to March 31 each year — and Medicare coverage does not begin until July 1. “The penalties are bad enough, but the real risk is waiting for coverage to begin,” said Joe Baker, president of the Medicare Rights Center, a consumer advocacy and policy group. “You face the risk of large out-of-pocket expenses, medical bills or debt, or inability to access care. It increases the reliance on emergency room care and creates needless health risks.” Mr. Farrell, for example, applied for Medicare one day after general enrollment ended, in April 2016. “I didn’t realize until too late that I had missed the deadline,” he said. As a result, his Part B coverage did not begin until July 2017 — he was fortunate to find a commercial insurance policy to plug that gap while he waited. Here are the most common situations that lead to costly errors. IF YOU’RE STILL EMPLOYED AT 65 People who are actively employed at age 65, and their spouses, may delay enrollment in Medicare. The key word here is “active,” as Mr. Farrell discovered. “Cobra does not count as active employer group coverage,” said Philip Moeller, author of Get What’s Yours for Medicare: Maximize Your Coverage, Minimize Your Costs. “If you lost your employer coverage, you still need to sign up for Medicare when you turn 65.” There is one other exception to the active employment rule: If you work for a company with 20 or fewer employees, Medicare becomes the primary payer, so sign up when you turn 65. “Insurers and employers audit this regularly, and if you become seriously ill, the insurer will realize you should have been on Medicare,” Mr. Baker said. “They will refund your premiums but they also can claw back any payments they may have made that should have been covered by Medicare.” IF YOU HAVE A HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT More employers are offering high-deductible health insurance plans, and that is creating an additional complication for some workers when they retire and enroll in Medicare. These plans often are paired with tax-preferred Health Savings Accounts (H.S.A.s), which accept contributions from employers and workers to offset out-of-pocket expenses. H.S.A.s can accept contributions only from people enrolled in high-deductible plans — and Medicare does not meet that definition. Contributions must stop when you enroll in Medicare, although withdrawals can continue, and you’ll owe taxes on any disallowed pretax contribution that you may have made. And the timing can be complicated, because Medicare Part A coverage is retroactive for six months for enrollees who qualify during those months. For those enrollees, H.S.A. contributions must stop six months before their Medicare effective date in order to avoid tax penalties. IF YOU ARE INSURED UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT Another common error is sticking past age 65 with a commercial policy obtained through the Affordable Care Act marketplace exchanges. Federal law requires that you switch to Medicare at age 65. Like Cobra, marketplace coverage is secondary to Medicare; switching to Medicare later must be done during the General Enrollment Period, leaving you exposed to possible long coverage delays like the one experienced by Mr. Farrell — plus penalties. Initially, people who made this mistake were required to repay any subsidies received for their policies, and they were subject to the standard late-enrollment penalties. Widespread confusion about the problem led the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to allow people to apply for relief from the late enrollment penalties. The relief allows some people to end their exchange coverage and enroll in Part B without penalties or gaps in coverage, and in other cases to have their penalties reduced. The relief is available through September of this year. Details are available on this Medicare fact sheet. IF YOU ARE ON RETIREE COVERAGE Some retirees receive coverage from former employers that supplement Medicare — typically help with meeting cost-sharing requirements or prescription drug coverage. Retiree benefits always are secondary payers to Medicare. A common error is turning down Part B coverage in the belief that this supplemental coverage is primary — and ending up with no primary coverage. In this situation, late Medicare sign-up must be done during the General Enrollment Period, and exposes you to late enrollment penalties. If the rules governing the transition to Medicare sound complicated, rest assured that experts agree. “Moving into Medicare from other kinds of health insurance can be so complicated that it should be a required chapter in Retirement 101,” Mr. Moeller said. The only government warning about the risks associated with late enrollment comes in the form of a very brief notice near the end of the annual Social Security Administration statement of benefits. The Medicare Rights Center and other advocacy groups have proposed legislation that would require the federal government to notify people approaching eligibility about enrollment rules, and how Medicare works with other types of insurance. The legislation — the Beneficiary Enrollment Notification and Eligibility Simplification Act, also would eliminate coverage gaps now experienced by enrollees during the Initial Enrollment Period and General Enrollment Period. The legislation was introduced in Congress last year, and will be reintroduced this year. In the meantime, Mr. Baker proposes a simple rule of thumb to help people approaching Medicare eligibility to avoid costly errors. “If you are eligible for Medicare, you should really consider it to be your default, primary coverage. If you are going to decline Medicare, think very carefully and take the time to really understand all the rules.”", "id": "5c534f743a125f5075c075f9", "date": "2019-01-31T19:41:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Not All Medicare Cuts Are Bad", "full_text": " Democrats are engaged in indiscriminate attacks on President Trump’s 2020 budget proposal. They are ignoring some worthy ideas. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Senate Democrats, including several of the party’s presidential candidates, have savaged President Trump for proposing to reduce Medicare spending by several hundred billion dollars over the next decade.  Senator Kamala Harris of California said the proposed changes in Medicare “would hurt our seniors.”  Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts tweeted, “The Trump administration wants to cut hundreds of billions of dollars from the #Medicare budget, all while giving billionaires and giant corporations huge tax breaks.”  The Hawaii senator Brian Schatz, the rare Democrat who is not running for president, offered the following summary: “One party wants to expand Medicare and Medicaid, and the other wants to cut them.” But some cuts to Medicare make sense. Several sought by Mr. Trump closely resemble cuts that had been proposed by President Barack Obama. And the indiscriminate attacks by Senate Democrats are a reminder of how hard it has become for Congress to perform even the most basic kinds of prudent housekeeping in the public interest. When Americans with Medicare visit a doctor’s office, the federal government pays a higher fee if that office happens to be owned by a hospital. This bonus payment serves no obvious purpose. A federal advisory board created to monitor Medicare spending has called for its elimination. And this month, the Trump administration proposed the change in its 2020 budget, along with several other measures recommended by nonpartisan experts to reduce payments to service providers without directly affecting the cost or availability of care.  In total, Mr. Trump’s budget would cut proposed Medicare spending by $845 billion over the next decade. About a third of that money would come from moving funding for certain programs to other parts of the federal budget, and pruning, so the actual reduction in spending would be in the neighborhood of $600 billion. The largest chunk of those cuts would come at the expense of hospitals that are paid more than independent doctors’ offices to treat patients.  The two-rate system has its roots in the real differences between a hospital and a doctor’s office. Hospitals tend to treat less-healthy patients; they provide a safety net of related services if something goes wrong; and they must comply with more stringent rules. But that line was warped as hospitals acquired physicians’ offices, taking advantage of their eligibility to collect larger payments from Medicare. Also, advances in medical technology have increased the range of services that can be provided outside a traditional hospital. In 2015, Congress sought to stem the trend by barring higher payments to any new offices acquired or established by hospitals — but existing practices were grandfathered in. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a federal panel created in 1997 to provide advice on Medicare spending, has recommended the end of that exemption. The White House budget estimates the change would save $28.7 billion between 2020 and 2029. A pair of more complex but related changes intended to equalize billing for procedures including medical imaging and drug management would save $240 billion more over the same period. Hospitals understandably dislike these proposals, and there may well be a better dividing line. It’s also possible that in some cases, the federal government should pay higher fees to private practices rather than pay lower fees to hospital affiliates. The administration’s budget contains only a thumbnail sketch of its own ideas, and the details clearly matter. But Democrats are not debating the details. Instead, a proposal to improve the efficiency of health care spending is being treated as an attack on the availability of health care. This is not a new phenomenon, of course. The Affordable Care Act included substantial reductions in Medicare spending. Those cuts, like Mr. Trump’s proposals, came mostly at the expense of providers rather than patients. But Republicans chose to attack the changes in language strikingly similar to the language Democrats have used in recent weeks. Both parties have fallen into the unfortunate habit of characterizing every proposal to reduce Medicare spending as an attack on the program’s beneficiaries. In fact, careful stewardship of spending is necessary to ensure the program can help as many people as possible. Mr. Trump is guilty of contradicting his campaign promise that he would not seek to cut Medicare spending. But it is the promise that was irresponsible, not the budget proposal. Some items on Mr. Trump’s list of proposed savings have obvious downsides. For example, he has proposed to cut federal spending by increasing the annual amount that several hundred thousand Medicare beneficiaries are required to pay for needed medications. The budget also proposes large cuts in Medicaid that would reduce the availability of health care for many lower-income and disabled Americans. But a president’s budget is just a list of ideas. It's up to Congress to pick the good ones. Support for past cuts in Medicare spending was driven in part by concerns about the growth of the federal debt. Both parties lately have taken a more relaxed view of the government’s borrowing capacity, in part because apocalyptic predictions about the current level of federal debt look rather silly in retrospect. But the government’s ability to borrow money is not a justification for the wasteful spending of tax dollars. Maintaining tight control of Medicare spending is good government in its own right. Congress ought to feel a sufficient urgency about eliminating unnecessary spending even if the federal government were running an annual budget surplus. Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren and other Democratic presidential candidates — including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — have become vocal proponents of expanding Medicare eligibility. The case for such an expansion would be strengthened if proponents showed greater concern not just for broadening the availability of health care, but also for managing the cost of care. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c99688c49f0eacbf105eff7", "date": "2019-03-25T23:45:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "24 Charged in $1.2 Billion Medicare Scheme, U.S. Says", "full_text": " Federal officials said Tuesday that they had dismantled a $1.2 billion Medicare scheme that spanned continents and ensnared hundreds of thousands of unsuspecting elderly and disabled patients. Under the scheme, which the authorities described as one of the largest health care frauds in United States history, doctors prescribed back, shoulder, wrist and knee braces that were not needed, prosecutors said. Twenty-four people were charged, according to the Justice Department. “These defendants — who range from corporate executives to medical professionals — allegedly participated in an expansive and sophisticated fraud to exploit telemedicine technology meant for patients otherwise unable to access health care,” Brian Benczkowski, the assistant attorney general for the department’s criminal division, said in a statement. Some of the accused were owners of durable medical equipment companies that paid kickbacks and bribes to doctors to write prescriptions for braces that were medically unnecessary, according to the authorities. An international telemarketing network with call centers in the Philippines and Latin America would reach out to Medicare beneficiaries, persuading them to get the free or low-cost braces. The doctors would sometimes write prescriptions without speaking to the patient. “The defendants took advantage of unwitting patients who were simply trying to get relief from their health concerns,” Craig Carpenito, the United States attorney for New Jersey, said in a statement. “Instead, the defendants preyed upon their weakened state and pushed millions of dollars’ worth of unnecessary medical devices, which Medicare paid for, and then set up an elaborate system for laundering their ill-gotten proceeds.” The defendants laundered the proceeds through international shell companies and used the money to buy exotic cars, yachts and luxury real estate around the world, the authorities said. Prosecutors brought charges related to the payment of bribes, illegal kickbacks, money laundering and conspiracy to commit health care fraud against people in California, Florida, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas. The individuals charged included the chief executives or employees of five telemedicine companies, the owners of dozens of durable medical equipment companies and three licensed medical professionals, the Justice Department said. In Florida, Willie McNeal IV, the owner and chief executive of two telemedicine companies, hired health care providers and then paid them to prescribe braces for Medicare beneficiaries regardless of whether it was medically necessary, according to an indictment. Mr. McNeal would then receive illegal kickbacks in exchange for ordering those braces, the indictment said. Mr. McNeal, 42, facilitated the submission of fraudulent Medicare claims worth nearly $250 million, the government said. If convicted, the government demanded that Mr. McNeal forfeit the profits obtained from the illegal kickbacks and any property that was purchased with those proceeds, including 10 properties in Florida. John Lauro, a lawyer representing Mr. McNeal, said in a phone interview on Tuesday that he could not comment on the specifics of the allegations but that he was disappointed by the Justice Department’s decision to arrest Mr. McNeal with “no advance warning” or opportunity to explain himself. “They simply arrested without asking any questions or giving the client the opportunity to talk about the telemedicine business model,” Mr. Lauro said. In a case out of South Carolina, more than a dozen companies owned by Andrew Chmiel, 43, billed Medicare for more than $200 million as part of a scheme to sell medically unnecessary equipment, according to an indictment. The indictment listed three properties, six cars and nearly two dozen bank accounts as subject to forfeiture if Mr. Chmiel is convicted. Mr. Chmiel’s lawyer said he was reviewing the indictment, but did not immediately comment on the charges. The alleged scheme was investigated by the F.B.I. and the Department of Health and Human Services inspector general, and is being prosecuted by the Justice Department. The I.R.S. and 17 United States attorney’s offices also took part in the crackdown.   ", "id": "5cad02b049f0eacbf1f82144", "date": "2019-04-09T20:36:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Medicare-for-All Trap", "full_text": " Most issues will strongly favor the Democrats in 2020. Taking away people’s health insurance is an exception. Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. A couple of weeks ago, one of the country’s most respected health care pollsters — Kaiser Family Foundation — conducted a survey on “Medicare for All.” And the top-line results looked great for advocates of the idea, like Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris. Some 56 percent of respondents said they favored “a national plan called Medicare for All in which all Americans would get their insurance through a single government plan.” A large majority of Democrats backed the idea. Almost a quarter of Republicans did, too. The poll’s details, however, were a lot of less positive about Medicare for All. In fact, they showed why single-payer health care may turn out to be one of the few problematic issues for Democrats heading into 2020 — if the party isn’t careful. Harris has highlighted the tensions this week, saying on Monday night that she supported the most aggressive version of Medicare for All before moderating her position, via aides, late yesterday.  [Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.] When Kaiser pollsters were putting together their survey, they understood that not all Americans thought of “Medicare for All” as meaning the same thing. So the poll asked people whether they believed that they would be allowed to keep their private insurance plan under such a system. Almost 60 percent of respondents said yes. “In reality,” as HuffPost’s Jonathan Cohn wrote, in an analysis of the poll, “the whole point of Medicare for All would be to wipe away current insurance arrangements and replace them with a new public plan.” Not only that, but when the pollsters described a version of Medicare for All in which private insurance was wiped away, support plummeted. The idea flipped from being popular to unpopular: 37 percent of respondents favored it, and 58 percent opposed it. This same hostility to change helped sink Bill and Hillary Clinton’s health care plan in the 1990s. It also became the mainline of Republican attack against Barack Obama’s health care law — and one reason that law remained unpopular (until President Trump started attacking it). Many Americans are happy with their current insurance, polls show. Even among those who aren’t, many worry about being forced into a new plan. “Loss aversion is a hell of a drug,” notes Brendan Nyhan, a University of Michigan political scientist. I understand the arguments in favor of mandatory Medicare for All. It could reduce bureaucratic waste and insurance-company profit skimming. It could help the United States lower its world-leading medical costs. And I’m thrilled to see presidential candidates willing to offer bold economic ideas. But I think this particular plan is an unforced error. It comes with huge political vulnerabilities — and a less problematic, but still bold, alternative exists: A vastly expanded version of Medicare that allows people to buy in voluntarily. That plan could also be called Medicare for All. And if it proved to be as popular as Democrats expect, advocating for the mandatory version would become much easier. Until then, as Nyhan says, the mandatory approach “splits Ds and unites Rs. That’s the opposite of smart politics.” The next Democratic president will need to prioritize among several big issues. I’d much prefer a winnable health care fight that also leaves room for action on climate, taxes, civil rights and other issues to an all-consuming uphill battle. Elsewhere … Watch Harris explain her position during the town hall on Monday night. CNN’s Jake Tapper said to her: “I believe it will totally eliminate private insurance. So for people out there who like their insurance, they don’t get to keep it?” Harris’s answer: “Well, listen, the idea is that everyone gets access to medical care. And you don’t have to go through the process of going through an insurance company, having them give you approval, going through the paperwork, all of the delay that may require. ... Let’s eliminate all of that. Let’s move on.” On Tuesday, her aides said she was also open to other approaches. Philip Klein of The Washington Examiner tweeted: “Gallup poll finds that 70% of those with private insurance rate their coverage as ‘excellent’ or ‘good’; 85% say the same about the actual health care that they receive.” “Democrats ... will have to navigate a tricky gap between what voters think of when they hear ‘Medicare for All,’ and what politicians mean when they say it,” Molly Hensley-Clancy of BuzzFeed News wrote, in a reported piece from Nebraska last year. “Pressed on the details of Medicare for All, many voters in Omaha expressed skepticism — or outright distaste — about the single-payer plan that Sanders has championed.” In Jacobin, Tim Higginbotham recently offered a more favorable view of mandatory Medicare, arguing that the transition wouldn’t be as disruptive as some Americans fear. “It will certainly face complications, but the Medicare bureaucracy will be able to sort these out as they come,” he wrote. Sarah Kliff and Dylan Scott of Vox have analyzed the various versions of Medicare for All, as well as other Democratic health care plans. Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Julian Castro — three other presidential candidates — also support the Sanders version of Medicare for All that Harris backs. But they have generally not been as clear about ending private insurance as Harris was on Monday. When Gillibrand was asked about that part of the plan on a recent episode of “Pod Save America,” she sidestepped the question. My view is that the best answer is a version of: I’m for Medicare for All. If you want Medicare, you can have it, regardless of your age. If you’d rather keep your private plan, you can do that, too. This approach will give us universal coverage, lower costs and consumer choice. Oh, and I’m in favor of tax increases on the wealthy and corporations to help pay for it. They’re not paying their fair share right now. The Axe Files Newsletter readers know that I’m a fan of David Axelrod’s podcast, “The Axe Files,” in which he asks guests to tell their life stories and eventually wends around to current events. I sat down with Axelrod in Chicago last week to tape an episode and had a great time talking about politics, economics and my wayward adolescent years. The conversation is available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher and the show’s website. If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c51abe93a125f5075c07185", "date": "2019-01-30T13:51:35+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Medicare for All and Beyond, Sanders Uses the Senate as His Launching Pad", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders stepped to the lectern on Wednesday, red-faced and rumpled as ever, with a placard screaming “Medicare for All,” and likened his quest for a government-run universal health plan to earlier movements for women’s rights, civil rights, workers’ rights and gay rights. “What we are involved in is not just health care legislation,” he declared, flanked by admiring doctors in lab coats, Democratic senators and one of his rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York. “We are involved in a great struggle.” Medicare for All is not passing this Congress. Its cost is still unknown, the mechanisms to pay for it still the subject of debate. But behind Mr. Sanders’s choreographed theatrics were the unmistakable politics of 2020 and his campaign for president, a campaign that never really ended with the election of Donald J. Trump. After the 2016 election, Democrats made efforts to pull Mr. Sanders, a political independent from Vermont, into the fold with a newly minted leadership post. But that has only bolstered his platform to seek the presidency — and gave him more power to disrupt the party’s status quo. “I ran for president; I got 13 million votes, going over 1,700 delegates to the Democratic convention, and got more young people’s votes than Clinton and Trump combined,” Mr. Sanders boasted in an interview in his Washington office. “And I thought that those 13 million people deserved a voice in Democratic leadership.” The Medicare for All Act unveiling — its fifth iteration — comes as Mr. Sanders’s $18 million fund-raising haul has made him an instant front-runner in a very crowded field. But in many ways he is still the “same old Bernie,” as many of his colleagues like to say — a gruff and sometimes grating presence in a chamber that prides itself on civility. He still knows how to rankle. He ran as a Democrat for president in 2016, then shunned the entreaties of Democratic leaders and sought re-election last year as an independent. His push for Medicare for All runs counter to the wishes of top Democrats like Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who are trying to de-emphasize it. At the same time, Mr. Sanders — who has long cast himself as an outsider — has joined party leadership, which gives him a voice in plotting strategy. His post as “chair of outreach” — a job that did not exist until he and Mr. Schumer created it after the 2016 presidential election — has also given him license and a small budget to travel the country doing what he likes best: rallying the progressive left to resist President Trump. [Bernie Sanders, now a millionaire, pledges to release tax returns by Monday.] More than a half-dozen members of Congress are running for president, but few have used their seats as adroitly as Mr. Sanders to burnish a brand. He announced his candidacy in 2015 on a patch of grass, known as the Swamp, outside the Capitol — an unusual locale given that senators are not supposed to mix official business with politics. Not long after the 2016 campaign, when some moderate Democrats worried he would help foster primary challenges against them, he brought his chief strategist, Jeff Weaver, to meet behind closed doors with his colleagues to tutor them on how to appeal to his millennial base. He went on CNN to debate tax policy with Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas. He held dozens of rallies in 2017 to whip up opposition to Mr. Trump’s plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “I think he feeds off these crowds; there’s no question about it,” said Larry Cohen, chairman of Our Revolution, the organization that spun out of Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign. Mr. Cohen added that Mr. Schumer realized there was “a huge benefit” to bringing on Mr. Sanders: “You don’t just bring him back after that kind of relative success and just treat him as the junior senator from Vermont.” Bernie Sanders’s proposal has big implications for consumers and the health care industry. Mr. Sanders also staked out policy crusades to address concerns that arose during his 2016 campaign. Criticized for lacking foreign policy experience, he teamed with two Republicans — Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky — to pass a resolution calling for an end to American military involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. He also embraced a criminal justice overhaul after being accused of not being sensitive enough to issues of racial injustice. He shrewdly hired the Democratic operative Tyson Brody, who compiled opposition research on him for Hillary Clinton’s campaign in 2016. Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and a co-chairman of Mr. Sanders’s 2020 campaign, calls Mr. Sanders “the perfect insider-outsider” who, unlike Mr. Trump, at least knows how Washington works. The last time he embarked on a run for the White House, in April 2015, Mr. Sanders, was viewed by his colleagues as a kind of oddball figure — a self-identified democratic socialist on a Don Quixote, tilting-at-windmills quest. “I think people should be a little bit careful underestimating me,” he said then. Now the senator has a different problem: So many Democrats sound so much like Bernie Sanders that some are asking why America needs Bernie Sanders. His Medicare for All bill is a case in point. Its co-sponsors include at least four Senate Democrats who are running against him: Ms. Gillibrand, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kamala Harris of California. But in planting a political stake in the ground with Medicare for All, Mr. Sanders is effectively challenging his Democratic rivals to follow suit, which could come back to haunt whomever is chosen as the party’s nominee, said David Krone, a former chief of staff to Harry Reid, the former Senate Democratic leader. “I’m very concerned that his campaign is creating a litmus test for other candidates and that’s a dangerous path,” Mr. Krone said. The Medicare for All Act would provide health insurance to all Americans under a single plan run by the government and financed by taxpayers; private insurers could remain in business but could only provide benefits, such as elective surgery, not covered by the government. The 2019 version includes coverage for long-term care, perhaps increasing its appeal but also its cost. The rollout — complete with Sanders-esque finger jabs and talk of “doctahs” and “dollahs” — was live-streamed from a packed room in the Dirksen Senate Office Building. After Mr. Sanders poked Mr. Trump, the president’s press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders (no relation), poked back, denouncing “self-proclaimed socialist Bernie Sanders” for “proposing a total government takeover of health care.” We asked a handful of economists and think tanks to find out. The plan’s main drawback — and one that alarms many moderate Democrats and Democratic leadership — is the cost: as high as $32 trillion over 10 years, according to two different studies. But the Sanders camp cites various other studies, including one by the RAND Corporation, to back up its assertion that Medicare for All would save middle-class families money by decreasing their premiums and out-of-pocket costs. As to why America needs Bernie Sanders, Mr. Sanders’s answer is simple: He was there first. “Find out how many folks in the 1980s were going up to Canada to learn about Medicare for All,” he said, adding: “In 1999, I took a busload of Vermonters across the Canadian border to purchase low-cost prescription drugs in Canada. O.K., I was the first member of Congress to do that. So are other people talking about the greed of the pharmaceutical industry? Yes. Check out who was there first.” He also took a subtle swipe at another of his competitors, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. Of her idea for a trillion-dollar infrastructure plan, he said, “Well, we were talking about that how many years ago? 2015?” Ms. Klobuchar then swiped back. “While a big infrastructure plan has been kicked around for years, I can get it done,” she wrote in an email message. Mr. Sanders has always been a scowling presence in the Senate. He plows through the Capitol corridors, always too busy to talk, stingy with his smiles. (“If you worked here, you wouldn’t smile either,” he said.) His official website offers a hint of where the job falls on his priority list. Until Wednesday, after this article pointed it out, it had not been updated to reflect his re-election in 2018 and still said he was “serving his second term after winning re-election in 2012.” He is thinner these days, having dropped 10 pounds on no particular diet — or at least none that he cares to share. (“By not eating,” he said, when asked how he did it.) And though his “national support has given Bernie more credibility,” in the words of Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat, his colleagues say not much has changed. “He’s Bernie,” said Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, who ran for vice president alongside Mrs. Clinton after she defeated Mr. Sanders for the 2016 Democratic nomination. “Whether that’s running or just being Bernie, he kind of does what he does.”", "id": "5cadb0f849f0eacbf1f82429", "date": "2019-04-10T09:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How ‘Medicare for All’ Would Work (or Not Work)", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige Cowett As the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics. Wednesday, March 13th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: archived recording 1 I think “Medicare for all” is the right solution. archived recording 2 I support “Medicare for all.” archived recording 3 Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all. archived recording 4 We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care. archived recording 5 We need to have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 6 I believe we should have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 7 This country will pass a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] michael barbaro “Medicare for all.” It’s Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the “Medicare for all” primary. Where does this idea, “Medicare for all,” come from? margot sanger-katz Well, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910. michael barbaro Margot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times. margot sanger-katz Then, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches. margot sanger-katz And if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed. margot sanger-katz And health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal. michael barbaro And why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue? margot sanger-katz I think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didn’t want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living. archived recording (harry truman) We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States. margot sanger-katz So the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman — archived recording (harry truman) The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need. margot sanger-katz — who wanted to create a universal health care program. archived recording (harry truman) Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health. margot sanger-katz And again, he really was stopped. archived recording (john f. kennedy) I believe the epic in which we’re engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us. margot sanger-katz Then, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly. archived recording (john f. kennedy) This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility. margot sanger-katz There was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didn’t have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick — that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldn’t get it through. archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine. margot sanger-katz It was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress — archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime. margot sanger-katz — that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare. archived recording (lyndon johnson) And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC] michael barbaro And what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law? margot sanger-katz The idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors. michael barbaro So it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans. margot sanger-katz That’s right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs. michael barbaro And why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care — why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans? margot sanger-katz I think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesn’t like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that it’s not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead. michael barbaro But what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period — the 1960s, the 1970s? margot sanger-katz Medicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like it’s an earned benefit. It’s something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks — if they’re between jobs, if they work for a company that doesn’t provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is. archived recording (ted kennedy) I’ve been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services. margot sanger-katz And because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system. archived recording (ted kennedy) But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as I’m a vote — margot sanger-katz Ted Kennedy has a proposal in 1970. archived recording (ted kennedy) — and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, it’s going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west. margot sanger-katz In the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before — concerns about socialism, industry opposition — those proposals essentially get batted down. michael barbaro And so what happens next? archived recording (barack obama) Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in. margot sanger-katz So I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010. archived recording (barack obama) And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else. margot sanger-katz There is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice. archived recording (barack obama) 7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz And on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot. archived recording This has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry. margot sanger-katz But what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who don’t get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance. michael barbaro So with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside. margot sanger-katz Yes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesn’t take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans’ expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, we’re moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if they’re poor, even if they don’t get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance — michael barbaro Right. margot sanger-katz — that really didn’t exist before. michael barbaro So even though with the Affordable Care Act we didn’t end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change people’s perception of what the government’s role should be when it comes to medicine. margot sanger-katz Exactly. archived recording 1 Who are you guys here to see? archived recording 2 Bernie! archived recording 1 Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC] margot sanger-katz And I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all. archived recording (bernie sanders) We must fight to make sure that we pass a “Medicare for all” health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz Medicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. “Medicare for all” says everyone gets the same health care. michael barbaro Hm. archived recording (bernie sanders) I happen to believe — and I know not everybody agrees with me — I believe that health care is a right of all people. archived recording Excuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind? archived recording (bernie sanders) Being a human being. Being a human being. margot sanger-katz Senator Sanders’s idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance that’s provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor. michael barbaro Wow. And what’s the reaction to Sanders’s proposal? margot sanger-katz It has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that he’s making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. It’s a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyone’s expectations in the Democratic primary. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz At the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think it’s sort of a laughable idea. It’s really, really far from where we are right now, it’s far from anything that’s really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesn’t typically get very far when it’s outside the confines of a campaign. michael barbaro So we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to “Medicare for all” after that? margot sanger-katz It’s really interesting. “Medicare for all” gets more popular than ever. So, you know, it’s not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump. archived recording (donald trump) I’m going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better. margot sanger-katz So you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when they’re asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And there’s a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill. michael barbaro How do you explain that shift? margot sanger-katz I definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it — that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didn’t like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans. archived recording And today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed. margot sanger-katz They failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care — that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry. archived recording Many of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents. margot sanger-katz And I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment. archived recording In North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and she’s two years old. margot sanger-katz And then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. They’re not in control of Congress anymore. They’re not in control of the White House. They don’t actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something that’s more idealistic, that’s more aspirational. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz When they’re in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about — equity, and we care about fairness. And they don’t really have to worry about the dirty little details. archived recording When our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run. margot sanger-katz That’s exactly what we saw happen in the midterms. archived recording Health care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse. margot sanger-katz We saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message. archived recording I’m voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know she’ll like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A. margot sanger-katz And it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have — that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders’ bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. It’s too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government — try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to let’s do single-payer. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says “Medicare for all“? What are the actual proposals on the table? margot sanger-katz Who knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says “Medicare for all,” we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But we’re not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do. michael barbaro To the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system? margot sanger-katz I think it’s almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. They’re among the largest and most — michael barbaro Aetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield. margot sanger-katz Yeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal. michael barbaro Wow. margot sanger-katz There would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government. michael barbaro And what about the cost? margot sanger-katz So this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the “Medicare for All” plan would do is it would say, no one’s going to pay into any of those streams — the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you can’t just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum. michael barbaro So what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if there’s any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system. margot sanger-katz So I’m always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now we’re left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I don’t think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if they’re not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think it’s a way to say, like, that’s the mountain-top goal. We’re going to get there eventually. But it’s not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, I’m going to get there right away. michael barbaro Well, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where “Medicare for all,” as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality? margot sanger-katz So I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canada’s system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldn’t be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldn’t untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I don’t think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I don’t know if that will change. michael barbaro Right. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything you’ve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it. margot sanger-katz I don’t know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true — that it’s really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we don’t have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade. michael barbaro It’s interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say “Medicare for all,” potentially, he’s actually trying to change the American culture to the point where “Medicare for all” could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says “Medicare for all,” they’re actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt “Medicare for all.” margot sanger-katz Maybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that we’re going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. It’s totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that we’ve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, it’s decided that they’re kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again. michael barbaro Hm. margot sanger-katz Which would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks. michael barbaro Margot, thank you very much. We appreciate it. margot sanger-katz I’m so happy to come on. [MUSIC] michael barbaro In his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher “Medicare for all” has become a punching bag for Republicans and a rallying cry for many Democrats. But what exactly is it? [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Margot Sanger-Katz, who covers health care for The New York Times. Background reading: What’s the difference between “Medicare for all,” single-payer health care, socialized medicine and universal coverage? Here’s a guide to the terminology. “Medicare for all” appears to mean different things to different people, including prominent Democrats who have endorsed it. But congressional leaders may soon have to clarify the party’s stance on health care in response to the president’s 2020 budget plan.  Some in the health care and insurance industries are mobilizing against proposals for a single-payer system. We look at how ideas once considered politically unthinkable can become mainstream. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Margot Sanger-Katz contributed reporting. “How ‘Medicare for All’ Would Work (or Not Work)” was produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige Cowett. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c88d4ff49f0eacbf105cca5", "date": "2019-03-13T10:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Hospitals Stopped Readmitting So Many Medicare Patients. Did That Cost Lives?", "full_text": " The New Old Age A new government program was supposed to prevent certain Medicare recipients from cycling in and out of hospitals. Now experts worry some older patients are being denied necessary care.  It was a well-intended policy. Almost all parties agree on that much. A decade ago, when Medicare beneficiaries were discharged from hospitals, one in five returned within a month. Older people faced the risks of hospitalization all over again: infections, deconditioning, delirium, subsequent nursing home stays. And preventable readmissions were costing Medicare a bundle. So the Affordable Care Act incorporated something called the Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program, which focused on three serious ailments with high readmission rates: heart failure, heart attacks and pneumonia. The A.C.A. penalized hospitals — withholding up to three percent of Medicare payments — when readmissions within 30 days exceeded national averages. The program, which took effect in 2012, seemed to work as intended. Within a few years, studies appeared in prestigious medical journals showing dramatic drops in readmissions. “They declined the most in the hospitals doing the worst — just what you’d hope for,” said Dr. Robert Yeh, who studies cardiology outcomes at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. “We thought, ‘Oh, looks like it’s been successful.’” Now, it’s not so clear. Are readmissions for those conditions really dropping as substantially as it first appeared? Or has the program’s impact been overstated? Are Medicare patients getting better care, or are they being kept out of hospitals to avoid readmission penalties? Are people getting hurt in the process? There’s no consensus on the answers, as research has produced conflicting results. But the questions intensified recently as two new studies helped stoke skepticism. One study, published in JAMA, reported that deaths from heart failure and pneumonia within 30 days of discharge have risen since the program began. “There’s a cloud over this,” said Dr. Yeh, the study’s senior author.  The readmissions program had no pilot testing before it began affecting decisions in thousands of hospitals, he noted: “Why couldn’t we have rolled this out in a way that let us evaluate it better?” A spokeswoman for the Center Medicare and Medicaid Services, citing “deep concern” about findings of increased mortality, said in an email that the agency would thoroughly review both studies and their methodologies and conclusions “to inform any future actions.” Reservations about the program’s claims to success, focusing on how hospitals report their statistics, had already surfaced before these latest studies.  To control for the fact that some patients are much sicker than others to begin with, Medicare uses “risk-adjusted” readmission statistics to prevent unfair penalties when higher-risk patients return to the hospital. Those designing the new program expected hospitals to reduce readmissions by improving transitional care: giving discharged patients better instructions, following up with advice and referrals, perhaps providing home visits. But a study of seven million Medicare hospitalizations suggested a more disappointing explanation. Looking at readmissions before the program, then after its announcement and implementation, the researchers noticed a distinct drop in a single month: January 2011. “The idea that one hospital would figure this out in a month is a stretch,” said Christopher Ody, a health care researcher at Northwestern University who led the study. “That 3,000 hospitals would figure it out in the same month is incredibly unlikely.” What happened? Dr. Ody suspects a change in administrative practices, not an improvement in care. In the study, published in Health Affairs, he and his colleagues point out that Medicare had just changed the electronic form used for billing. Instead of allowing hospitals to enter up to nine diagnoses for each patient, the new form permitted as many as 25. Accordingly, the proportion of claims with fewer diagnoses plunged and those with 11 or more climbed, making patients’ conditions look more severe. “That explains roughly half the decline in the risk-adjusted readmission rate,” Dr. Ody said. Instead of a 2.6 percent decline from 2010 to 2012, the study found, readmissions actually fell a more modest 1.3 percent. That decline, he and his co-authors argue, is no greater than the drop in readmissions for other conditions at smaller, rural hospitals that were exempt from readmissions penalties. That might represent good news, if it meant the program had changed hospital cultures enough to reduce readmissions even when penalties didn’t apply. But Dr. Yeh and his group have reported, more disturbingly, that the program may contribute to unnecessary deaths. Using the Medicare database to compare mortality rates before and after the penalties were imposed, they found rising mortality within 30 days of discharge for heart failure and pneumonia (but not for heart attacks).  The rates of increase were small but growing, and may indicate that thousands of additional deaths from heart failure and pneumonia followed the program’s announcement and implementation. “Some of those patients previously would have been readmitted, but because of the financial incentives, they were not,” said Dr. Gregg Fonarow, co-chairman of cardiology at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a critic of the readmissions program. In an editorial accompanying the Harvard study, he called on Congress and Medicare to revise the program. Because both these new studies are observational, they can show readmissions falling or deaths rising, but can’t explain why. The findings could reflect other factors, like better outpatient care and higher thresholds for hospitalization. The readmissions program still has staunch defenders, too. One is the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a nonpartisan panel that advises Congress. It reported in June that the program had reduced readmissions without increasing mortality — and was saving Medicare more than $2 billion a year. Another defender is Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a cardiologist and researcher at Yale University whose team helped develop the readmission measures Medicare uses. He’s skeptical of the recent findings. “This suggests that doctors are putting their hospitals’ financial interests ahead of their patients’ welfare, which I haven’t seen and which the evidence doesn’t support,” he said, citing MedPAC’s study and his own.  Now that additional conditions can result in readmission penalties — including joint replacements, pulmonary disease treatment and cardiac bypass surgery — he wants an independent investigation of the program. “You want to have faith that the physicians making decisions with you don’t have, in the back of their minds, ‘Are we going to get dinged for this?’” he said. While nobody wants to spend more time in a hospital, some patients need to be readmitted. But it’s hard for consumers to judge whether another stay will help them recover or needlessly expose them to additional risks and expense, so a consensus on the Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program’s safety and effectiveness would be welcome. “Perhaps the lesson is, it’s harder to reduce readmissions than we would have thought or hoped,” Dr. Ody said. ", "id": "5c4232773a125f5075c05323", "date": "2019-01-18T20:09:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Health Care and Insurance Industries Mobilize to Kill ‘Medicare for All’", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Even before Democrats finish drafting bills to create a single-payer health care system, the health care and insurance industries have assembled a small army of lobbyists to kill “Medicare for all,” an idea that is mocked publicly but is being greeted privately with increasing seriousness. Doctors, hospitals, drug companies and insurers are intent on strangling Medicare for all before it advances from an aspirational slogan to a legislative agenda item. They have hired a top lieutenant in Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to spearhead the effort. And their tactics will show Democrats what they are up against as the party drifts to the left on health care. They also demonstrate how entrenched the Democrats’ last big health care victory, the Affordable Care Act, has become in the nation’s health care system. The lobbyists’ message is simple: The Affordable Care Act is working reasonably well and should be improved, not repealed by Republicans or replaced by Democrats with a big new public program. More than 155 million Americans have employer-sponsored health coverage. They like it, by and large, and should be allowed to keep it. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige Cowett As the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: archived recording 1 I think “Medicare for all” is the right solution. archived recording 2 I support “Medicare for all.” archived recording 3 Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all. archived recording 4 We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care. archived recording 5 We need to have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 6 I believe we should have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 7 This country will pass a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] michael barbaro “Medicare for all.” It’s Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the “Medicare for all” primary. Where does this idea, “Medicare for all,” come from? margot sanger-katz Well, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910. michael barbaro Margot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times. margot sanger-katz Then, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches. margot sanger-katz And if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed. margot sanger-katz And health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal. michael barbaro And why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue? margot sanger-katz I think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didn’t want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living. archived recording (harry truman) We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States. margot sanger-katz So the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman — archived recording (harry truman) The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need. margot sanger-katz — who wanted to create a universal health care program. archived recording (harry truman) Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health. margot sanger-katz And again, he really was stopped. archived recording (john f. kennedy) I believe the epic in which we’re engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us. margot sanger-katz Then, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly. archived recording (john f. kennedy) This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility. margot sanger-katz There was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didn’t have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick — that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldn’t get it through. archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine. margot sanger-katz It was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress — archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime. margot sanger-katz — that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare. archived recording (lyndon johnson) And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC] michael barbaro And what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law? margot sanger-katz The idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors. michael barbaro So it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans. margot sanger-katz That’s right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs. michael barbaro And why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care — why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans? margot sanger-katz I think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesn’t like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that it’s not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead. michael barbaro But what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period — the 1960s, the 1970s? margot sanger-katz Medicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like it’s an earned benefit. It’s something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks — if they’re between jobs, if they work for a company that doesn’t provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is. archived recording (ted kennedy) I’ve been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services. margot sanger-katz And because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system. archived recording (ted kennedy) But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as I’m a vote — margot sanger-katz Ted Kennedy has a proposal in 1970. archived recording (ted kennedy) — and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, it’s going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west. margot sanger-katz In the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before — concerns about socialism, industry opposition — those proposals essentially get batted down. michael barbaro And so what happens next? archived recording (barack obama) Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in. margot sanger-katz So I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010. archived recording (barack obama) And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else. margot sanger-katz There is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice. archived recording (barack obama) 7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz And on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot. archived recording This has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry. margot sanger-katz But what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who don’t get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance. michael barbaro So with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside. margot sanger-katz Yes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesn’t take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans’ expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, we’re moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if they’re poor, even if they don’t get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance — michael barbaro Right. margot sanger-katz — that really didn’t exist before. michael barbaro So even though with the Affordable Care Act we didn’t end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change people’s perception of what the government’s role should be when it comes to medicine. margot sanger-katz Exactly. archived recording 1 Who are you guys here to see? archived recording 2 Bernie! archived recording 1 Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC] margot sanger-katz And I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all. archived recording (bernie sanders) We must fight to make sure that we pass a “Medicare for all” health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz Medicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. “Medicare for all” says everyone gets the same health care. michael barbaro Hm. archived recording (bernie sanders) I happen to believe — and I know not everybody agrees with me — I believe that health care is a right of all people. archived recording Excuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind? archived recording (bernie sanders) Being a human being. Being a human being. margot sanger-katz Senator Sanders’s idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance that’s provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor. michael barbaro Wow. And what’s the reaction to Sanders’s proposal? margot sanger-katz It has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that he’s making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. It’s a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyone’s expectations in the Democratic primary. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz At the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think it’s sort of a laughable idea. It’s really, really far from where we are right now, it’s far from anything that’s really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesn’t typically get very far when it’s outside the confines of a campaign. michael barbaro So we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to “Medicare for all” after that? margot sanger-katz It’s really interesting. “Medicare for all” gets more popular than ever. So, you know, it’s not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump. archived recording (donald trump) I’m going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better. margot sanger-katz So you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when they’re asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And there’s a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill. michael barbaro How do you explain that shift? margot sanger-katz I definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it — that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didn’t like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans. archived recording And today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed. margot sanger-katz They failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care — that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry. archived recording Many of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents. margot sanger-katz And I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment. archived recording In North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and she’s two years old. margot sanger-katz And then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. They’re not in control of Congress anymore. They’re not in control of the White House. They don’t actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something that’s more idealistic, that’s more aspirational. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz When they’re in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about — equity, and we care about fairness. And they don’t really have to worry about the dirty little details. archived recording When our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run. margot sanger-katz That’s exactly what we saw happen in the midterms. archived recording Health care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse. margot sanger-katz We saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message. archived recording I’m voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know she’ll like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A. margot sanger-katz And it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have — that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders’ bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. It’s too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government — try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to let’s do single-payer. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says “Medicare for all“? What are the actual proposals on the table? margot sanger-katz Who knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says “Medicare for all,” we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But we’re not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do. michael barbaro To the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system? margot sanger-katz I think it’s almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. They’re among the largest and most — michael barbaro Aetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield. margot sanger-katz Yeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal. michael barbaro Wow. margot sanger-katz There would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government. michael barbaro And what about the cost? margot sanger-katz So this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the “Medicare for All” plan would do is it would say, no one’s going to pay into any of those streams — the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you can’t just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum. michael barbaro So what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if there’s any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system. margot sanger-katz So I’m always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now we’re left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I don’t think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if they’re not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think it’s a way to say, like, that’s the mountain-top goal. We’re going to get there eventually. But it’s not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, I’m going to get there right away. michael barbaro Well, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where “Medicare for all,” as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality? margot sanger-katz So I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canada’s system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldn’t be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldn’t untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I don’t think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I don’t know if that will change. michael barbaro Right. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything you’ve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it. margot sanger-katz I don’t know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true — that it’s really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we don’t have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade. michael barbaro It’s interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say “Medicare for all,” potentially, he’s actually trying to change the American culture to the point where “Medicare for all” could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says “Medicare for all,” they’re actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt “Medicare for all.” margot sanger-katz Maybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that we’re going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. It’s totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that we’ve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, it’s decided that they’re kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again. michael barbaro Hm. margot sanger-katz Which would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks. michael barbaro Margot, thank you very much. We appreciate it. margot sanger-katz I’m so happy to come on. [MUSIC] michael barbaro In his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it. “We have a structure that frankly works for most Americans,” said Charles N. Kahn III, the president of the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents investor-owned hospitals. “Let’s make it work for all Americans. We reject the notion that we need to turn the whole apple cart over and start all over again.” The Democrats’ proposals could radically change the way health care providers do business and could drastically shrink the role and the revenues of insurers, depending on how a single-payer system is devised. The hospital federation and two powerful lobbies, America’s Health Insurance Plans and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, created a coalition last June to pre-empt what they saw as an alarming groundswell of interest in proposals to expand the federal role in health care. In a daily fusillade of digital advertising, videos and Twitter posts, the coalition, the Partnership for America’s Health Care Future, says that Medicare for all will require tax increases and give politicians and bureaucrats control of medical decisions now made by doctors and patients — arguments that echo those made to stop Medicare in the 1960s, Mrs. Clinton’s health plan in 1993 and the Affordable Care Act a decade ago. The coalition will step up the tempo in the coming week as Democrats in the House and the Senate plan to introduce bills to establish a single-payer system. The name of the coalition is intentionally nondescript, and its executive director, Lauren Crawford Shaver, who led Mrs. Clinton’s efforts in 2016 to put marginal states into play, is cagey when asked for details. She says only that the group is planning “a big nationwide effort” with grass-roots allies. But its reach is undeniable. The coalition has picked up more than 25 members, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and the nation’s Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans. And it has already sprung into action. When Senator Bernie Sanders, the author of the Medicare for All Act, announced on Tuesday that he was again running for president, the coalition immediately attacked him as “a leading advocate for upending our nation’s health care system in favor of starting from scratch with Medicare for all.” Mr. Sanders, independent of Vermont, fired back at the insurance and drug companies. “They make tens of billions of dollars a year in profits from this dysfunctional health care system and pay their C.E.O.s outrageous compensation packages,” Mr. Sanders said. “We’ve expected their opposition all along.” When members of Congress unveiled legislation to let people age 50 to 64 buy into Medicare, the coalition conflated it with proposals to put all Americans into Medicare. “This is a slippery slope to government-run health care for every American,” said David Merritt, an executive vice president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers. The buy-in proposal for older Americans dates back to Bill Clinton’s presidency, and many of its advocates have put it forward as a moderate alternative to Medicare for all. But the coalition said the proposal was wrong for America, “whether you call it Medicare for all, Medicare buy-in, single payer or a public option.” The chief sponsor of the House buy-in bill, Representative Brian Higgins, Democrat of New York, said: “The critics lump our bill with the bigger Medicare-for-all proposal. That’s strategic, and I think it’s deliberate.” Mr. Higgins said the option of Medicare at age 50 would create “a countervailing force to private insurance.” “Insurance companies are fighting it because they are afraid of the prospect of a potent new competitor that will cut into their profits,” Mr. Higgins said. “Medicare has lower administrative costs and lower executive salaries and could use its bargaining power to get better deals from hospitals and other health care providers.” Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and the sponsor of the buy-in bill in the Senate, said she was not surprised at the criticism. “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to anything that expands Medicare,” she said. But, she said, people 50 to 64 need the option. “We see the auto industry laying people off, encouraging people to retire early,” Ms. Stabenow said. “Many people are holding their breath until they turn 65. They put off preventive screenings, so they come into Medicare at 65 with more health problems.” Under the Affordable Care Act, insurers can increase premiums with a person’s age, and older people who do not qualify for subsidies face the highest premiums on the insurance exchange. For a 60-year-old in Charlotte, N.C., the average premium for a midlevel silver plan is more than $1,100 a month; in Phoenix, it is nearly $1,000 a month. The mission of the industry partnership includes advocacy, advertising, lobbying and public education, but it has not registered under federal lobbying laws. Forbes Tate, a public affairs company that lobbies for many health care and drug companies, coordinates the work of the partnership, but is not registered to lobby on its behalf. “There are no direct lobbyists for the partnership,” Ms. Shaver said. “We work through all of our different groups. They have their own lobbyists who do obviously lobby on Medicare for all. But there are no registered lobbyists for the partnership because we are not doing that directly at this time.” The coalition, like President Trump, attacks any proposals that smack of socialized medicine. But it also has a positive agenda. It wants to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act in Texas, Florida and other states that have yet to do so. It wants to expand federal subsidies under the health law so insurance will be affordable to more people. And it wants to stabilize premiums by persuading states to set up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims. Beyond their desire to preserve the status quo, coalition members have done well by the Affordable Care Act. Many participants, such as the American Medical Association, the pharmaceuticals lobby and the hospital association, backed the A.C.A. from the start, banking that more insured Americans would mean more customers. The hospitals saw the health law’s Medicaid expansion as a lifeline as they struggled with the uninsured working poor. Others, like the National Retail Federation, opposed the A.C.A. but have tried to make it work. The need to bolster the Affordable Care Act will become even more urgent, the coalition says, if Texas and other states succeed in their lawsuit to invalidate the entire law. Even without legislation to expand Medicare, the program is sure to grow because of the aging of the baby boom generation. The number of Medicare beneficiaries, 60 million today, is expected to top 75 million within a decade. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Medicare spending will grow under current law to $1.5 trillion in 2029, double the total projected for this year. E. Neil Trautwein, the vice president for health care policy at the retail federation, which represents companies like Walmart, McDonald’s and Amazon, said his top priority was to protect the stability of the coverage that employers provide to employees. “We are trying to understand what will be coming at us,” Mr. Trautwein said. “Proposals on the left and the right, in Congress and on the campaign trail, could blow up the employer-based health care system that has worked pretty well for more than 60 years.” The version of Medicare for all proposed by Mr. Sanders in 2017 could disrupt that coverage. It would expand the list of items and services covered by Medicare and would prohibit employers from duplicating any of those benefits. When Mr. Sanders introduced that bill, it was endorsed by several Democratic senators who have since become candidates for the party’s presidential nomination: Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. The more modest Medicare buy-in bill has been endorsed by Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Ms. Harris, as well as by another Democratic candidate for president, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, and a potential candidate, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio. Yet another Democratic proposal, allowing states to create a Medicaid buy-in program for all their residents, regardless of income, has won support from 23 senators, including Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Warren. Members of the coalition had different positions in the struggle to pass the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010, but rave about it today. Ten million people have coverage through the exchanges, 14 million have gained Medicaid coverage, and in a strong economy more people have jobs that provide health insurance, they say. Some members of the coalition have financial as well as philosophical reasons for resisting the push to expand Medicare. Doctors and hospitals say Medicare generally pays less than private insurance, and hospitals say the payments frequently do not cover the costs of providing care to Medicare patients. “Chronic underpayment to providers creates access issues for seniors, particularly with physicians, who may limit the number of Medicare patients they see,” said Richard J. Pollack, the president of the American Hospital Association. Congress, he said, often makes changes in Medicare for reasons that have nothing to do with sound health policy — to offset the costs of tax cuts, for example. Moreover, Mr. Pollack said: “The government can be an unreliable business partner. What happens when the government shuts down? What happens if the health care system is even more dependent on Medicare and the government shuts down again?” But the coalition does not speak for all health care providers. The American College of Physicians, the largest medical specialty organization in the country, has supported a Medicare buy-in for people 55 to 64. And “during the whole debate over the Affordable Care Act, we supported having a public option in the individual insurance market in every state,” said Robert B. Doherty, senior vice president of the college, which represents 154,000 doctors who specialize in internal medicine.  ", "id": "5c7168aa3a125f5075c0b2c4", "date": "2019-02-23T15:35:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kamala Harris and Michael Bloomberg Clash on Medicare for All", "full_text": " A day after Senator Kamala Harris of California endorsed ending private health insurance in favor of a “Medicare for all” government plan, Michael R. Bloomberg, a possible rival of hers for the Democratic presidential nomination, said the proposal would “bankrupt us for a very long time.” Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, rejected the idea of “Medicare for all,” which has been gaining traction among Democrats. “I think you could never afford that. You’re talking about trillions of dollars,” Mr. Bloomberg said during a political swing in New Hampshire, which holds the nation’s first primary in 2020. “I think you can have ‘Medicare for all’ for people that are uncovered,” he added, “but to replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time.” Mr. Bloomberg did not mention any of his would-be competitors by name. But his wording — particularly the distinction he drew between providing Medicare to everyone and providing it only to those currently uninsured — positioned him clearly against Senator Harris. Few Democrats have explicitly suggested ending private insurance, even though many have endorsed “Medicare for all.” Ms. Harris initially stopped short of it, too, saying at a CNN town-hall event on Monday that she supported “Medicare for all” and adding, “We have to appreciate and understand that access to health care, it should not be thought of as a privilege. It should be understood to be a right.” But when the CNN anchor Jake Tapper pressed her on what that meant for private insurance, Ms. Harris responded, “Let’s eliminate all of that.” Lily Adams, a spokeswoman for Ms. Harris, responded to Mr. Bloomberg on Twitter, noting that he is a billionaire. On Tuesday night, a campaign spokesman for Ms. Harris said she still supports and prefers the elimination of private insurers, but also noted that she had previously backed other bills that are alternates to “Medicare for all” that would preserve some role for the insurance industry. A Harris spokeswoman also emphasized on Twitter that this comment did not mean Ms. Harris was bending on “Medicare for all.” But the campaign’s move to modify Ms. Harris’s comments on such a major issue illustrated the difficulty the 2020 hopefuls could face attempting to appeal to their progressive base while not turning off general election voters. The disagreement between Mr. Bloomberg and Ms. Harris reflects a basic divide within the Democratic Party. On one side are liberals who have proposed ambitious left-wing policies, from “Medicare for all” to a wealth tax on the richest Americans. On the other side are centrist and fiscally conservative Democrats, along with liberals who support such policies in theory but argue that voters would reject them.   ", "id": "5c50e5da3a125f5075c06fd7", "date": "2019-01-29T23:46:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Bernie Sanders Puts Focus on Healthcare With Medicare for All Bill", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders unveiled the latest version of his ambitious \"Medicare-for-All\" plan on Wednesday, moving the healthcare debate among Democratic presidential contenders to center stage in the 2020 race. The Sanders plan, similar to his 2017 proposal that languished in the Senate, would largely eliminate private insurance and shift all Americans into a Medicare-based government-run healthcare plan that Republicans have criticized as too costly and radical. The bill has 14 Democratic co-sponsors in the Senate, including four of his presidential rivals - Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren. The other White House contender in the Senate, Amy Klobuchar, supports universal healthcare and expanding Medicare but has not committed to plans that would eliminate private insurance. A similar measure in the House of Representatives has more than 100 co-sponsors. \"The current debate over Medicare for All really has nothing to do with healthcare; it has everything to do with greed and profiteering,\" Sanders said at a Capitol Hill event to roll out the proposal, where he was joined by Gillibrand. \"This is a struggle for the heart and soul of who we are as the American people,\" he said. Sanders, an independent senator from Vermont who mounted an unsuccessful 2016 White House run, has turned the proposal, once dismissed as too fringe, into a centerpiece of the Democratic Party's agenda heading into the 2020 White House race. At least 10 other Democrats vying for the right to challenge Republican President Donald Trump in 2020 have backed some similar form of government-run healthcare, and every Democrat supports taking at least smaller steps toward achieving universal coverage. Other prominent Democrats, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have urged the party to focus on protecting and strengthening the Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, which Trump and Republicans have vowed to dismantle. The Sanders proposal, which has little chance of passage in the Republican-run Senate, expands on his old bill to include coverage of home and community-based long-term care services for people with disabilities. Sanders does not put a price tag on the proposal, but would raise revenues to help pay for it through a combination of taxes on employers, individuals, businesses and the wealthy. He suggests that healthcare spending and administrative costs would decrease and costs for consumers would be reduced. The liberal Urban Institute estimated the earlier Sanders plan would cost $32 trillion over a decade, with the additional taxes raising about $15 trillion. Republicans have criticized the bill as a socialist pipe dream that would be too costly and weaken the U.S. healthcare system. They have promised to make it a key election issue in 2020. \"It's the same tired, debunked logic that Washington, D.C., knows best and the American people can't be trusted to decide what's best for themselves and their families,\" Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said.  (Reporting by John Whitesidess; editing by Jonathan Oatis)", "id": "5cae50d749f0eacbf1f82765", "date": "2019-04-10T20:22:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Difference Between a ‘Public Option’ and ‘Medicare for All’? Let’s Define Our Terms", "full_text": " A glossary for the emerging Democratic health care debate. Democrats, the many running for president as well as energized members of Congress, are talking big about health care again. Among other things, that means brace yourself for some jargon.  Here’s your neighborhood health care nerd to help define some terms.  Various proposals are floating around, each of which would change the health care system in distinct ways. Some, like one from Senator Bernie Sanders, would do away with all private health insurance. Some would make small expansions in existing public programs. Some would try to cover all Americans through a mix of different insurance types. It can be mystifying when people call all of these ideas “Medicare for all,” as some in the debate have been doing.  A glossary of terms could make the debate less confusing. Let’s start with the basics.  Medicare is a 54-year-old program that provides health insurance for Americans 65 and older, and for a few other groups of people with particular diseases or disabilities. Traditional Medicare pays doctors and hospitals according to set prices determined by the government, and most medical providers in the United States accept it. It’s also possible to enroll in private Medicare plans that can offer additional benefits, though with a more limited set of health providers. Private plans handle Medicare drug coverage, and you can choose among options. You pay premiums each year, and you pay deductibles and co-payments when you use medical services. Because the program’s out-of-pocket spending has no limits, most Medicare beneficiaries also buy private supplemental insurance to limit those costs. That insurance doesn’t cover medical services outside the Medicare system, but it helps pay the patient’s share of the bill when a person goes to the doctor or hospital. This increasingly popular term was coined to describe a system in which all Americans, not just older ones, get health insurance through the government’s Medicare system.  Mr. Sanders, who prominently featured such a plan in his 2016 presidential platform and just announced he has joined the 2020 race, uses this term a lot. His plan would both expand traditional Medicare to cover all Americans, and change the structure of the program, to cover more services and eliminate most deductibles and co-payments. So the Medicare everyone would be getting would differ in crucial ways from the Medicare older people get now. There would effectively be no private health insurance, because the new system would cover everyone and everything; duplicative coverage would be banned. That’s why Senator Kamala Harris of California, a co-sponsor of the Sanders bill and a presidential candidate, told CNN recently that she would endorse abolishing all private insurance — doing so is a key feature of the plan. But there are many other possible flavors of Medicare for all. Though no prominent politicians are currently proposing it, an expansion of the current Medicare benefits, with its current co-payments, deductibles and premiums, could also be thought of as “Medicare for all.” The idea of Medicare for all is suggestive of the health care system in Canada. There, doctors and hospitals remain private, but everyone gets insurance from the government. No one there is asked to pay any money when seeing a doctor. The Canadian health care system is even called Medicare. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige Cowett As the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: archived recording 1 I think “Medicare for all” is the right solution. archived recording 2 I support “Medicare for all.” archived recording 3 Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all. archived recording 4 We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care. archived recording 5 We need to have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 6 I believe we should have “Medicare for all.” archived recording 7 This country will pass a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] michael barbaro “Medicare for all.” It’s Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the “Medicare for all” primary. Where does this idea, “Medicare for all,” come from? margot sanger-katz Well, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910. michael barbaro Margot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times. margot sanger-katz Then, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches. margot sanger-katz And if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks. archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt) First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed. margot sanger-katz And health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal. michael barbaro And why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue? margot sanger-katz I think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didn’t want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living. archived recording (harry truman) We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States. margot sanger-katz So the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman — archived recording (harry truman) The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need. margot sanger-katz — who wanted to create a universal health care program. archived recording (harry truman) Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health. margot sanger-katz And again, he really was stopped. archived recording (john f. kennedy) I believe the epic in which we’re engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us. margot sanger-katz Then, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly. archived recording (john f. kennedy) This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility. margot sanger-katz There was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didn’t have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick — that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldn’t get it through. archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine. margot sanger-katz It was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress — archived recording (lyndon johnson) No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime. margot sanger-katz — that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare. archived recording (lyndon johnson) And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC] michael barbaro And what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law? margot sanger-katz The idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors. michael barbaro So it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans. margot sanger-katz That’s right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs. michael barbaro And why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care — why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans? margot sanger-katz I think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesn’t like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that it’s not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead. michael barbaro But what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period — the 1960s, the 1970s? margot sanger-katz Medicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like it’s an earned benefit. It’s something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks — if they’re between jobs, if they work for a company that doesn’t provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is. archived recording (ted kennedy) I’ve been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services. margot sanger-katz And because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system. archived recording (ted kennedy) But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as I’m a vote — margot sanger-katz Ted Kennedy has a proposal in 1970. archived recording (ted kennedy) — and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, it’s going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west. margot sanger-katz In the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before — concerns about socialism, industry opposition — those proposals essentially get batted down. michael barbaro And so what happens next? archived recording (barack obama) Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in. margot sanger-katz So I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010. archived recording (barack obama) And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else. margot sanger-katz There is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice. archived recording (barack obama) 7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz And on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot. archived recording This has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry. margot sanger-katz But what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who don’t get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance. michael barbaro So with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside. margot sanger-katz Yes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesn’t take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans’ expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, we’re moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if they’re poor, even if they don’t get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance — michael barbaro Right. margot sanger-katz — that really didn’t exist before. michael barbaro So even though with the Affordable Care Act we didn’t end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change people’s perception of what the government’s role should be when it comes to medicine. margot sanger-katz Exactly. archived recording 1 Who are you guys here to see? archived recording 2 Bernie! archived recording 1 Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC] margot sanger-katz And I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all. archived recording (bernie sanders) We must fight to make sure that we pass a “Medicare for all” health care system. [CROWD CHEERING] margot sanger-katz Medicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. “Medicare for all” says everyone gets the same health care. michael barbaro Hm. archived recording (bernie sanders) I happen to believe — and I know not everybody agrees with me — I believe that health care is a right of all people. archived recording Excuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind? archived recording (bernie sanders) Being a human being. Being a human being. margot sanger-katz Senator Sanders’s idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance that’s provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor. michael barbaro Wow. And what’s the reaction to Sanders’s proposal? margot sanger-katz It has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that he’s making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. It’s a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyone’s expectations in the Democratic primary. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz At the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think it’s sort of a laughable idea. It’s really, really far from where we are right now, it’s far from anything that’s really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesn’t typically get very far when it’s outside the confines of a campaign. michael barbaro So we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to “Medicare for all” after that? margot sanger-katz It’s really interesting. “Medicare for all” gets more popular than ever. So, you know, it’s not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump. archived recording (donald trump) I’m going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better. margot sanger-katz So you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when they’re asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And there’s a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill. michael barbaro How do you explain that shift? margot sanger-katz I definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it — that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didn’t like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans. archived recording And today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed. margot sanger-katz They failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care — that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry. archived recording Many of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents. margot sanger-katz And I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment. archived recording In North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and she’s two years old. margot sanger-katz And then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. They’re not in control of Congress anymore. They’re not in control of the White House. They don’t actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something that’s more idealistic, that’s more aspirational. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. margot sanger-katz When they’re in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about — equity, and we care about fairness. And they don’t really have to worry about the dirty little details. archived recording When our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run. margot sanger-katz That’s exactly what we saw happen in the midterms. archived recording Health care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse. margot sanger-katz We saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message. archived recording I’m voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know she’ll like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A. margot sanger-katz And it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have — that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders’ bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. It’s too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government — try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to let’s do single-payer. michael barbaro Well, let’s talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says “Medicare for all“? What are the actual proposals on the table? margot sanger-katz Who knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says “Medicare for all,” we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But we’re not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do. michael barbaro To the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system? margot sanger-katz I think it’s almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. They’re among the largest and most — michael barbaro Aetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield. margot sanger-katz Yeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal. michael barbaro Wow. margot sanger-katz There would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government. michael barbaro And what about the cost? margot sanger-katz So this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the “Medicare for All” plan would do is it would say, no one’s going to pay into any of those streams — the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you can’t just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum. michael barbaro So what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if there’s any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system. margot sanger-katz So I’m always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now we’re left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I don’t think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if they’re not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think it’s a way to say, like, that’s the mountain-top goal. We’re going to get there eventually. But it’s not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, I’m going to get there right away. michael barbaro Well, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where “Medicare for all,” as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality? margot sanger-katz So I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canada’s system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldn’t be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldn’t untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I don’t think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I don’t know if that will change. michael barbaro Right. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything you’ve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it. margot sanger-katz I don’t know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true — that it’s really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we don’t have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade. michael barbaro It’s interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say “Medicare for all,” potentially, he’s actually trying to change the American culture to the point where “Medicare for all” could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says “Medicare for all,” they’re actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt “Medicare for all.” margot sanger-katz Maybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that we’re going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. It’s totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that we’ve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, it’s decided that they’re kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again. michael barbaro Hm. margot sanger-katz Which would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks. michael barbaro Margot, thank you very much. We appreciate it. margot sanger-katz I’m so happy to come on. [MUSIC] michael barbaro In his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it. This one is pretty simple if you understand Medicare for all. Single-payer is a more general term used to describe a government system, typically backed by taxes, in which everyone gets health care from one insurer, run by the government. Think of Medicare for all as a brand-name single-payer plan. Some advocates also like the term “national health insurance.” These terms all describe a system in which the government pays for everyone’s health care services. Critics of single-payer are particularly fond of this term, which describes a system in which the government runs not just the financing of health care — by running an insurance company like Medicare — but also manages hospitals and employs medical providers directly. Britain’s National Health Service is an example of a socialized system. Doctors there work for the government. The United States has its own socialized system, for military veterans. Veterans get their insurance through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which owns hospitals; employs doctors, nurses and other medical professionals; and negotiates directly with pharmaceutical companies for drugs. In general a veteran couldn’t get coverage for routine care from a doctor who didn’t work directly for the V.A., but recent policy changes have started to privatize more health care for veterans. There are currently no mainstream proposals to fully socialize the United States health care system. When lawmakers were writing the Affordable Care Act, there was an extensive debate about whether it should include a public option. The idea didn’t prevail in the end, but many Democrats now want to bring it back. You can think of a public option as something of a compromise between a single-payer system and our current system, in which only certain Americans now qualify for government-run programs. More people — maybe many more — could get government insurance. But only if they wanted it. Public-option plans would allow middle-income, working-age adults to choose a public insurance plan — like Medicare or Medicaid — instead of a private insurance plan. There are various ways this could work. Some proposals would allow individuals to pay a premium to buy a Medicare or Medicaid plan that would be the same as the insurance now available to older people, the disabled or the poor. Others would set up a new public plan, run by the government, that Americans could buy. Under most proposals, people who get federal help buying Obamacare coverage could use their government subsidies to help them buy either a private or public option. Most of the current proposals would limit access to the public option to certain groups of Americans. A bill from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and colleagues would allow only those older than 50 to buy a Medicare plan, for example. Some plans would allow only people who buy their own health insurance to choose Medicare or Medicaid as an option alongside those offered in the Obamacare exchanges.  Others would also let employers choose Medicare, instead of a private health insurance company, when offering benefits to their workers. A plan from a liberal think tank, the Center for American Progress, would make the public Medicare option available to anyone who wanted to sign up. An advantage of a public option, at least politically, is it would preserve more choice for individuals, who could stick with a private plan if they prefer. That would make it less disruptive than a single-payer plan. A downside is that keeping lots of different insurance options could undermine one of the goals of a single-payer system, a simpler approach that would involve less money tied up in paperwork and insurance company profits. All of the earlier entries describe ways of organizing the health insurance system. Universal coverage is a broader goal. When people push for universal coverage, they mean that everyone should have access to the health care system. You’ll sometimes hear politicians say that health care should be a “right.” That statement is an endorsement of universal coverage. Most other developed countries embrace this idea, that health care should not be only for those who can afford it. But those countries have not all embraced single-payer approaches. There are ways to achieve universal coverage that don’t look like a single-payer system at all. Most European countries, for example, have systems with competing private health insurance plans, along with tight regulation and government subsidies that make the premiums affordable for everyone. This article from my Upshot colleagues Aaron Carroll and Austin Frakt, in which experts voted on the world’s best health system, does a nice job of showing the different ways that countries have achieved universal coverage. This sort of European-style coverage is not prominent in our current policy debate. Margot Sanger-Katz is a domestic correspondent and writes about health care for The Upshot. She was previously a reporter at National Journal and The Concord Monitor and an editor at Legal Affairs and the Yale Alumni Magazine.  @sangerkatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c6c54073a125f5075c0a746", "date": "2019-02-19T19:06:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Top Senate Dem Stops Short of Embracing 'Medicare for All'", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Senate's top Democrat stopped short of throwing his weight behind Sen. Bernie Sanders' \"Medicare for All\" plan Thursday, calling it one of several proposals his party is advancing to strengthen health care. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., made the comments to reporters a day after Sanders, a Democratic presidential candidate, rolled out his latest version of the measure. The Vermont independent's package is supported by many liberals and several other presidential contenders, but many moderates fear it's an easy target for Republicans to characterize as socialist and a pathway to huge tax increases. Health care seems likely to be a major issue in next year's presidential and congressional elections. Underscoring the GOP's glee at using Medicare for All as a campaign issue, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said he'd consider forcing the Senate to vote on Sanders' bill. Such a vote would put many Democrats in the uncomfortable position of backing an issue of intense interest to liberal Democratic voters while leaving themselves vulnerable to GOP attack ads. \"It's worth thinking about,\" McConnell told reporters. McConnell recently forced a vote on another liberal Democratic proposal, the Green New Deal plan, to aggressively try to curb global warming, and most Democrats voted \"present.\" Asked about Sanders' plan, Schumer said Democrats are united in improving health care, lowering costs and creating universal coverage. \"Different Democrats have different ways to get there,\" Schumer said. Sanders' 100-page bill would replace job-based and private health insurance with a government-run system providing coverage for all. There would be no premiums or deductibles and only minimal copays for certain services. Sanders did not estimate his measure's cost, which others have projected at well into the trillions of dollars. He listed a menu of potential ways to pay for his bill but not specified which he would choose. Schumer cited several more modest proposals by other Democratic senators and said, \"We are united on moving health care forward.\"", "id": "5caf8d4949f0eacbf1f83021", "date": "2019-04-11T18:52:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Medicare for All Emerges as Early Policy Test for 2020 Democrats", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke at length this week about her vision for improving the American health care system, like strengthening the Affordable Care Act and making prescription drugs more affordable. Twice, though, she ignored a question posed to her: Would she support eliminating private health insurance in favor of a single-payer system? “Affordable health care for every American” is her goal, Ms. Warren said on Bloomberg Television, and there are “different ways we can get there.” To put it another way: I am not walking into that political trap. Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and three other liberal presidential candidates support a Medicare for All bill, which would create a single-payer health plan run by the government and increase federal spending by at least $2.5 trillion a year, according to several estimates. But Ms. Warren’s determination to sidestep an essential but deeply controversial issue at the heart of the single-payer model — would people lose the choices offered by private insurance? — illustrated one of the thorniest dilemmas for several Democrats as the 2020 primary gets underway. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Their activist base, inspired by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, believes that the party should unabashedly pursue universal health care, ending private insurance entirely. But polls indicate that the broader electorate, particularly the moderate- and high-income voters who propelled the party’s sweeping suburban gains in the midterms, is uneasy about this “Medicare for all” approach in which many would lose their current insurance options and pay higher taxes. Senator Kamala Harris of California drew immediate attacks from Republicans this week by taking on the issue that Ms. Warren dodged. Ms. Harris breezily acknowledged in a CNN town hall forum that she would “eliminate all of that,” referring to ending private insurance in a country where almost 60 percent of the population receives coverage through an employer. Her remark triggered an intraparty debate about an issue that until now had been largely theoretical: A decade after Democrats pushed through the most significant expansion of health care since the Great Society, should they build incrementally on the Affordable Care Act or scrap the insurance sector entirely and create a European-style public program? Four Democratic presidential candidates — Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey — are among the co-sponsors of Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, which would replace the Affordable Care Act with a single government health plan for all Americans. Medicare is the federal program providing health coverage to people 65 and older. The concept of Medicare for all has become popular with Democrats: 81 percent support it, according to a recent Kaiser poll. Yet voter opposition to surrendering the insurance they are used to led to a backlash over President Barack Obama’s repeated promise that “if you like your plan, you can keep your plan” after it proved false for several million people under his health law. Many Democrats are keenly aware of that backlash, and the 2020 presidential race will be the first where many of the party’s leading candidates will have to explain and defend the meaning of Medicare for all. For now, as Ms. Warren demonstrated, many candidates do not want to wrestle publicly with the details. After Ms. Harris’s comment, her aides hastened to add that she would also support less sweeping changes to health care; like most other candidates, Ms. Harris declined an interview request. And by Friday, Mr. Booker, hours after announcing his presidential bid, sought to curtail the matter by offering a brisk “no” when asked if he supported eliminating private coverage. Yet there is one likely 2020 contender who is thrilled to discuss Medicare for all. Mr. Sanders, in an interview, did not mince words: The only role for private insurance in the system he envisioned would be “cosmetic surgery, you want to get your nose fixed.” “Every candidate will make his or her own decisions,” Mr. Sanders said, but “if I look at polling and 70 percent of the people support Medicare for All, if a very significant percentage of people think the rich, the very rich, should start paying their fair share of taxes, I think I’d be pretty dumb not to develop policies that capture what the American people want.” But Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor who is considering a 2020 bid on a centrist Democratic platform, said it would be folly to even consider a single-payer system. “To replace the entire private system where companies provide health care for their employees would bankrupt us for a very long time,” Mr. Bloomberg told reporters in New Hampshire on Tuesday. The Congressional Budget Office has not scored Mr. Sanders’s Medicare for All bill, but a study last year by the Mercatus Center of George Mason University predicted it would increase federal spending by at least $32.6 trillion over the first decade. The cost could be even greater, the study says, if the bill overestimated the projected savings on administrative and drug costs, as well as payments to health care providers. The divide between Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist, and Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican-turned-independent-turned-Democrat, reflects the large chasm in a party that has been reshaped by President Trump. The president’s hard-line nationalism has simultaneously nudged Democrats to the left, emboldening them to pursue unambiguously liberal policies, and drawn independents and moderate Republicans to the party because they cannot abide his incendiary conduct and demagogy on race. These dueling forces have created a growing but ungainly coalition that shares contempt for Mr. Trump but is less unified on policy matters like health care. And these divisions extend to what is wisest politically. Liberals argue that the only way to drive up turnout among unlikely voters or win back some of the voters uneasy with Hillary Clinton’s ties to corporate interests is to pursue a bold agenda and elevate issues like Medicare for all. “Those who run on incremental changes are not the ones who are going to get people excited and get people to turn out,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, the co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. And by preserving their options, Democrats risk alienating liberal primary voters, some of whom consider support for Medicare for all a litmus test. “The center is not a good place to be on these policies anymore,” said Mary O’Connor, 61, a substitute teacher and horse farmer in Middleburg, Va., who wants a single-payer system. “I’ll be watching extremely closely, and I will most likely jump on board and volunteer for whoever it is that’s going to be the most forceful for this.” But moderates believe that most Democratic primary voters are more fixated on defeating Mr. Trump than applying litmus tests — and that terminating employer-sponsored insurance would only frighten the sort of general election voters who are eager to cast out Mr. Trump but do not want to wholly remake the country’s health care system. “Most of the freshmen who helped take back the House got elected on: ‘We’re going to protect your health insurance even if you have a pre-existing condition,’ not ‘We’re going to take this whole system and throw it out the window,’” said Kenneth Baer, a Democratic strategist. While polling does show that Medicare for all — a buzz phrase that has lately been applied to everything from single-payer health care to programs that would allow some or all Americans to buy into Medicare or Medicaid — has broad public support, attitudes swing significantly depending on not just the details, but respondents’ age and income. On the House side, a bill similar in scope to Mr. Sanders’s is under revision and will soon be reintroduced with Ms. Jayapal as the main sponsor. Other Democrats have introduced less expansive “Medicare buy-in” bills, which would preserve the current system but would give certain Americans under 65 the option of paying for Medicare or a new “public option” plan. Another bill would give every state the option of letting residents buy into Medicaid, the government health program for poor Americans. The buy-in programs would generally cover between 60 and 80 percent of people’s medical costs and would require much less federal spending because enrollees would still pay premiums and not everyone would be eligible. Some proponents, like Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, have described them as a steppingstone on the way to a full single-payer system; some of the Democrats running for president are co-sponsoring these “Medicare for more” bills as well as Mr. Sanders’s. Mr. Sanders has suggested options to raise the money needed for his plan, such as a new 7.5 percent payroll tax and a wealth tax on the top 0.1 percent of earners. He has also predicted several trillion dollars in savings over 10 years from eliminating the tax exclusion that employers get on what they pay toward their workers’ insurance premiums, and other tax breaks. But Robert Blendon, a health policy professor at Harvard who studies public opinion, said it would be wise not to delve into financing details for now. “The reason it failed in Vermont and Colorado was taxes,” Professor Blendon said, referring to recent efforts to move to a near-universal health care system in those states, which flopped resoundingly because they would have required major tax increases. “But Democratic primary voters will not go deep into asking how these plans will work. What they will say is, ‘Show me you have a principle that health care is a human right.’” The general election will be a different story, Professor Blendon added. If Ms. Harris were to become the Democratic nominee and keep embracing the idea of ending private coverage, he argued, “she’s going to have terrible problems.” The difficulty for Democrats, added Ezekiel Emanuel, a former Obama health care adviser, is that many voters look at the health care system the same way they view politics. “They say Congress is terrible but I like my congressman,” as Mr. Emanuel put it. According to the Gallup poll, 70 percent of Americans with private insurance rate their coverage as “excellent” or “good;” 85 percent say the same about the medical care they receive. The Kaiser poll found that the percentage of Americans who support a national health plan drops by 19 percentage points when people hear that it would eliminate insurance companies or that it would require Americans to pay more in taxes. Among those who make over $90,000 a year — the sort of voters in the House districts that several Democrats captured in the midterms — those surveyed in the Kaiser poll were particularly wary of an all-government system: 64 percent in this income group said they would oppose a Medicare for all plan that terminated private insurance. “My constituents are tired of bumper sticker debates about complex issues,” said Representative Lizzie Pannill Fletcher of Texas, a freshman from an affluent Houston district. “We don’t want ideologues in charge.” In Vermont, where former Gov. Peter Shumlin shelved his ambitious plan for a single-payer system in 2014 after conceding it would require “enormous” new taxes, advocates for universal health care are now resigned to a more incremental approach. Dr. Deb Richter, a primary care doctor who helped lead the state’s single-payer movement, said that while the Democratic field is “going to have to face the T word,” being upfront about the required tax increases, she now thinks phasing in a government-run system is a better approach. “There’s ways of doing this that don’t have to happen all at once,” she said, pointing to a push in Vermont to start with universal government coverage for primary care only. “But you need to talk about the end goal: We are aiming for Medicare for all, and this is a way of getting it done.” Maggie Astor contributed reporting from New York.   ", "id": "5c55ccc83a125f5075c07b73", "date": "2019-02-02T17:00:04+0000"}]