[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Will Be Released Thursday, Justice Dept. Says", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr will release the highly anticipated special counsel’s report to Congress and to the public on Thursday morning, a Justice Department spokeswoman said Monday. Mr. Barr will release the report after department lawyers black out secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other delicate information, said the spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec. Investigators for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, found no conspiracy between Russia’s 2016 election interference and Trump associates, Mr. Barr told lawmakers last month in a letter outlining their main findings. They declined to make a decision on whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice but stopped short of exonerating him, but Mr. Barr and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, stepped in and concluded that Mr. Trump had not committed an obstruction offense. Mr. Barr has come under fire for that decision and for other aspects of his handling of the report. Some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Mr. Barr played down the negative implications for Mr. Trump when he shared their main conclusions, and lawmakers have demanded the full text of the document. The leaders of the House Intelligence Committee asked the Justice Department and the F.B.I. on Monday to share counterintelligence information that investigators uncovered during the inquiry and for Mr. Mueller to brief their panel. “We look forward to the department and the bureau’s continued cooperation with the committee on this matter of grave national importance,” wrote Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the committee, and Representative Devin Nunes of California, the panel’s top Republican, citing the committee’s role in conducting oversight of counterintelligence matters. Mr. Barr said in hearings last week that he would work with lawmakers to allow them to see some of the information he is redacting from the report. And he has promised to be as transparent as possible and said the redacted report would give the public an accurate picture of the investigative findings. “Everyone will soon be able to read it on their own,” Mr. Barr wrote to lawmakers last month. [Read the key Mueller findings.] No matter how much information is redacted, the report, at nearly 400 pages, is certain to upend Washington. White House aides, lawmakers and anyone with a stake in the findings have begun preparing to digest them and spin them to their advantage. Once the White House receives the report, Emmet T. Flood, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, will read it and brief Mr. Trump; other aides plan to examine it for information related to obstruction of justice, according to people familiar with their plan. Mr. Trump, who has a typical schedule on Thursday, including plans to meet with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and to participate in a veterans event with the first lady, has sought to define the report before its release. He incorrectly declared a “total exoneration” when Mr. Barr delivered the bottom-line conclusions last month. Mr. Barr has pushed back on criticisms of his handling of the report, reminding members of Congress that he was giving them more information than he was required to under the regulations governing the special counsel and noting that the rules were written by Clinton administration officials seeking to avoid a repeat of the lengthy Starr report, which contained lurid sexual details about President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and analysis of potential crimes that the president was not ultimately charged with. Mr. Barr also said that Mr. Mueller had declined an offer to review his letter outlining the investigation’s main conclusions and that Mr. Mueller “has a fuller explanation” of why he did not come to a conclusion on obstruction that will be in the report. Mr. Barr has also said he will make himself available to testify on Capitol Hill after the report is released. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. While the special counsel rules allow the attorney general to decide whether to share the report with the public and how much of it to release, Democrats have shown an unwillingness to rely on Mr. Barr’s judgments. The House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, to subpoena Mr. Barr to compel him to turn over an unredacted copy of the special counsel’s report as well as its underlying investigative files. Mr. Barr told senators last week that releasing the redacted report would be the first step in what promises to be a protracted back-and-forth with Democratic lawmakers over how much of the document they are allowed to see. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” Mr. Barr said. Democrats did not accept his reassurances. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said that any attempt to hide pieces of the report would “only fuel suspicions that the Justice Department, which represents the United States, is playing the role of President Trump’s defense team.” Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the House Judiciary Committee’s top Republican, has also asked that the committee invite Mr. Mueller to testify. “It is Special Counsel Mueller who is best positioned to testify regarding the underlying facts and material in which you are so interested,” Mr. Collins wrote in a letter to Mr. Nadler. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Annie Karni from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5cb4aa1449f0eacbf1f84395", "date": "2019-04-15T15:56:42+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Meaning of the Mueller Report", "full_text": " So far it’s a vindication of the rule of law. Now the public needs to read it. The editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section. Give President Trump this much: In the face of the biggest existential threat to his presidency, the special counsel’s Russia investigation, he checked himself where it mattered most. Yes, his near-daily campaign to mock and discredit Robert Mueller’s “witch hunt” has now lasted longer than his campaign for the White House. His shameful, conspiratorial attacks on the “deep state,” and on the integrity of those who have devoted their lives to upholding the rule of law, have damaged the institutions of federal law enforcement and may have gotten him in even deeper trouble. Still, one persistent danger — that Mr. Trump would find a way to scuttle the investigation before it could be completed — never materialized. On Friday afternoon, Mr. Mueller, nearly two years after he was appointed to look into possible ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government, delivered a full report of his findings and recommendations to the attorney general, as required by Justice Department regulations. Mr. Trump even joined a remarkably bipartisan House of Representatives, along with a vast majority of the American public, in calling for the release of Mr. Mueller’s report. “Let people see it,” he said on Wednesday. “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” On the first point, we can all agree. William Barr, the attorney general, needs to release as much of Mr. Mueller’s work as he possibly can, and soon. We’ll reserve judgment on the second. It may prove that Mr. Trump has kept repeating his mantra of “no collusion” because it’s true. But even if Mr. Mueller has found in the end that Mr. Trump did not knowingly conspire with Russia — and it is profoundly to be hoped that the report settles that question, one way or the other — that doesn't mean this inquiry has been a witch hunt. Throughout the campaign and transition, Mr. Trump and many of his top officials and advisers had more than 100 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries. These contacts were apparently so unmemorable that many Trump advisers forgot all about them, even when asked under oath. Lying to federal officials is a crime, and at least four of Mr. Trump’s top aides (so far) have copped to doing it about their Russian contacts: Michael Flynn, the president’s first national security adviser; Rick Gates, the deputy campaign chairman; George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser on the campaign; and Michael Cohen, the president’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer. Paul Manafort is also accused of lying repeatedly to investigators, but that’s the least of his problems. Mr. Manafort, who served as Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman for three months, is now serving seven-plus years in prison for money laundering and other crimes related to his years of lucrative work for political clients in Ukraine. And don’t forget Roger Stone, whose adventure through the justice system has only just begun. Mr. Stone, a longtime Trump adviser and political dirty trickster with roots going back to the Nixon administration, was arrested in January in an early-morning raid at his home and charged with multiple counts of false statements, obstruction of justice and witness tampering. Quite a team Mr. Trump surrounded himself with! And we haven’t even gotten to his son Donald Trump Jr., who needed no arm-twisting to accept a Russian offer of assistance during the campaign (“If it’s what you say I love it, especially later in the summer”), and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who seemed to have his hands in everything. At the heart of it all is Mr. Trump’s own behavior — his unexplained affection for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and his knack for knowing just the right time to encourage election interference. “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Mr. Trump, in a reference to Hillary Clinton’s emails, said on July 27, 2016 — the same day, as it happened, that the Russians began doing just that. (Last year, Mr. Mueller gained the indictment of 12 Russian military intelligence officers for their role in hacking computer servers of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.) Then there are the times Mr. Trump interfered in the investigation himself — first urging then-F.B.I. director James Comey to drop the bureau’s investigation into Mr. Flynn, then firing Mr. Comey when he refused. Two days later, Mr. Trump said on national television that he’d fired Mr. Comey at least in part because of “this Russia thing with Trump and Russia.” This doesn’t count roughly a dozen other investigations into the president, several of which could ultimately expose him to even greater legal or political peril than Mr. Mueller’s. Most serious is the investigation by federal prosecutors in New York, which has already resulted in a three-year prison sentence for Mr. Cohen for his role in committing federal campaign-finance crimes to cover up hush-money payments to women claiming they had affairs with Mr. Trump — a cover-up that prosecutors say Mr. Trump aided after becoming president. Last month, Mr. Cohen spent some of his last moments as a free man testifying before Congress that Mr. Trump also lied during the campaign about negotiations to build a long-planned skyscraper in Moscow, which were continuing through much of 2016. Didn’t he worry that the lies could come back to hurt him? “He never expected to win the election,” Mr. Cohen said. Whether or not a sitting president can be indicted is a long-running debate among lawyers, but either way, Mr. Trump is sure to be under investigation for the rest of his term in office, and probably in court for the rest of his life. If he were less self-involved or paranoid, Mr. Trump would be grateful that his investigator was a man whose name is synonymous with integrity and fairness — and not, as the journalist Garrett Graff wrote, “the Democratic version of Ken Starr.” Whatever Mr. Trump’s reasons for doing the right thing and letting Mr. Mueller complete his work — bluffing, self-interest or resignation — they matter less than the fact that he did it. It may be a low bar, but given Mr. Trump’s demonstrated contempt for ideals of justice, it’s still something. No matter what Mr. Mueller’s efforts have turned up, the fact that he is now presenting his findings free of presidential interference is a bit of good news for the rule of law in America. Now all Americans deserve the chance to review those findings and reach their own conclusions.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c95541d49f0eacbf105e95a", "date": "2019-03-22T21:29:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Debate About the Mueller Report", "full_text": " letters Readers continue to speculate about the actual contents of the Mueller report and discuss the legitimacy of the investigation. To the Editor: In Scottish criminal courts there are three possible verdicts rather than our two. To “guilty” and “not guilty” is added “not proven.” This has the effect of a not guilty, yet the jury is saying, “There was insufficient evidence, but we believe you committed the offense.” The stigma remains. Robert Mueller wrote that his investigation “did not establish” that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, rather than Attorney General William Barr’s wording, more favorable to Mr. Trump, that Mr. Mueller “did not find” a conspiracy. It seems to me that Mr. Mueller intended the stigma of that Scottish “not proven” choice. Mr. Trump may call himself fully exonerated, yet I anticipate that if we get to read the Mueller report itself, we will see a much less favorable verdict. Steven C. ChinnBronx To the Editor: As someone who firmly believes Donald Trump is unfit to be president, I have simple advice for the Democratic Party: Put the Mueller report behind you and concentrate on the defeat of Mr. Trump in 2020. Mistakes were made in the 2016 campaign, resulting in the election of Mr. Trump. Learn from those mistakes. The current president gives the Democrats abundant fodder for an effective campaign. The election is just more than 19 months away. Despite the temporary bump in popularity Mr. Trump will enjoy since the release of the Mueller report, don’t give him more popularity by belaboring the Russian collusion investigation. Mark E. HorowitzBrooklyn To the Editor: With the release of the Mueller report, so ends the great Russian collusion fairy tale, one of the most brazen political hoaxes and smear campaigns ever attempted in Washington.  Collusion had become an article of faith among those on the left and in the liberal media, a narrative breathlessly advanced by bitter Democrats and a petulant press that couldn’t accept the 2016 election results. Robert Mueller was the messiah who would deliver the goods to topple President Trump, and he was cartoonishly built up to superhuman capabilities by a fawning media. The collusion narrative was cynically orchestrated to delegitimize Mr. Trump’s presidency and keep his administration pinned back on its heels. Despite the absence of collusion/conspiracy charges, Democrats will no doubt engage in incessant investigations designed to remove Mr. Trump from power. Rather than cut bait, they will continue their fishing expeditions. And untold numbers of Trump-hating Americans will buy what they’re selling hook, line and sinker. Michael J. DiStefanoJamestown, R.I.  To the Editor: I think the early press coverage has failed to do justice to what Robert Mueller actually found. Russian interference on President Trump’s behalf has been confirmed, as have the facts that the Russians made approaches to the Trump campaign, which the campaign never reported to the government, and that the Russians promised benefits, such as illegally intercepted emails, which the campaign said nothing about to American authorities. The Trump campaign people may not have opened the gates to our democracy to the Russians, but they stood by while the enemy came in. They may not technically be conspirators in the criminal sense, but they were collaborators. And now we’re facing another election, in which we have to face the fact that our own president and the people around him are aligned with our enemies against us. Michael KurlandLinda RobertsonSan Luis Obispo, Calif. To the Editor: Re “We All, Again, Just Made Fools of Ourselves” (column, March 26): Contrary to David Brooks’s assertion, many of the “grievous accusations” against President Trump are, in fact, supported by evidence that we, the American people, have seen revealed over the past two years. There is no reason for Democrats to feel shame for their pursuit of the truth in this mess. How can Mr. Brooks draw conclusions about an investigation without reading the primary source material — in this case the Mueller report? Mr. Brooks cannot have read the report, only what the attorney general has said about it, and, as we know, William Barr is an interested party.  Adele Geffen EilProvidence, R.I.", "id": "5c9a91b149f0eacbf105f2db", "date": "2019-03-26T20:53:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "America Is Done Waiting for the Mueller Report", "full_text": " Someday, Trump will not be in office. Congress needs a full accounting of his misdeeds to ensure they don’t happen again. Mr. Nadler is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Last Sunday, Attorney General William Barr sent us a letter summarizing what he says are the “principal conclusions” of the special counsel, Robert Mueller. The next day, together with five other committee chairmen, I wrote back to the attorney general, demanding that he provide us with the full Mueller report — not a summary, but the full report and all of the relevant evidence — by April 2. For nearly two years, the country has waited to read the report. Over those many months, President Trump has raged against the institutions that make our democracy possible — among them, the free press, the courts and his own Department of Justice. When the special counsel indicted members of the president’s inner circle, his attacks got louder. Before the formal investigation began, Mr. Trump fired his F.B.I. director. He later fired his attorney general. He reportedly attempted to fire the special counsel himself. Despite this profoundly unacceptable behavior, the special counsel persevered and wrote his report. We — the members of the Judiciary Committee, the House of Representatives and the entire American public — are still waiting to see that report. We will not wait much longer. We have an obligation to read the full report, and the Department of Justice has an obligation to provide it, in its entirely, without delay. If the department is unwilling to produce the full report voluntarily, then we will do everything in our power to secure it for ourselves.  The entire reason for appointing the special counsel was to protect the investigation from political influence. By offering us his version of events in lieu of the report, the attorney general, a recent political appointee, undermines the work and the integrity of his department. He also denies the public the transparency it deserves. We require the full report — the special counsel’s words, not the attorney general’s summary or a redacted version. We require the report, first, because Congress, not the attorney general, has a duty under the Constitution to determine whether wrongdoing has occurred. The special counsel declined to make a “traditional prosecutorial judgment” on the question of obstruction, but it is not the attorney general’s job to step in and substitute his judgment for the special counsel’s.  That responsibility falls to Congress — and specifically to the House Judiciary Committee — as it has in every similar investigation in modern history. The attorney general’s recent proposal to redact the special counsel’s report before we receive it is unprecedented. We require the evidence, not whatever remains after the report has been filtered by the president’s political appointee. On its face, the attorney general’s letter raises more questions than it answers. He tells us, for instance, that he declined to charge the president with obstruction in part because there was no underlying crime to obstruct.  Did he discuss that conclusion with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein — who, while a federal prosecutor, routinely charged individuals with obstruction without charging the underlying crime? Did the attorney general forget that the special counsel indicted 37 other people, including the president’s campaign chairman, deputy campaign chairman and former national security adviser, for various crimes, including conspiracy against the United States? Did he lose track of his own prosecutors, who effectively named the president as an unindicted co-conspirator in the Southern District of New York? Second, we require the report because Congress has a role that is fundamentally different from that of the Department of Justice. The special counsel’s mandate was narrow: investigate allegedly criminal conduct stemming from links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Our job is to hold the president accountable any time he undermines the rule of law, and is not limited to his involvement with the Russian government during the campaign. Whether or not the president could have been charged with a crime, even the attorney general acknowledges the existence of evidence that has so far been hidden from view. We have every reason to suspect that the unedited obstruction section of the Mueller report resembles the report that Congress received from the Watergate grand jury in 1974. That evidence showed that President Richard Nixon had attempted to obstruct justice. It did not recommend that the president should be prosecuted. It did not say the president should be impeached. It simply stated the evidence so that Congress could do its job. Finally, we require the report because one day, one way or another, the country will move on from President Trump. We must make it harder for future presidents to behave this way. We need a full accounting of the president’s actions to do that work.  When the full scope of the president’s misconduct has been revealed, when his lies are debunked and his abuses have been laid bare, I believe that members of Congress on both sides of the aisle will draft legislation to curb the worst of his offenses. Put another way: If President Trump’s behavior wasn’t criminal, then perhaps it should have been. Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democrat from New York, is the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca1e18149f0eacbf1f7b167", "date": "2019-04-01T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Release the Whole Mueller Report", "full_text": " Congress needs to be able to make its own assessment of the facts — and so do we. Mr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. When President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I., on May 9, 2017, many Americans were justifiably worried that investigators would never be permitted to get to the bottom of Russia’s attack on our 2016 election and any potential involvement of Mr. Trump’s associates. Despite continued attempts by the president to impede the investigation, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has, in under two years, indicted dozens of Russians and Americans and submitted a report for review to Attorney General William Barr. Now that Mr. Mueller’s investigation is complete (or nearly complete), the Department of Justice must formally reveal its findings to Congress and the American people, which have separate and enormously consequential responsibilities of their own. These responsibilities cannot be carried out fully without direct access to the material that is in the report. Understanding this, the House of Representatives has already unanimously passed a resolution calling for the report’s release, and in recent polling vast majorities of Americans have agreed with this approach. The report that Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Barr for review should be viewed in combination with the remarkable assertions and conclusions that the special counsel has already reached in the form of indictments and guilty pleas of Trump associates and Russian nationals and organizations.  Mr. Mueller and his team have already established that the Russian government engaged in a multipronged attack on our democracy. To review: Russian military intelligence officers hacked computers, networks and email accounts associated with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party, and then released hacked material via WikiLeaks. Separately, Russians used fraudulent social media accounts to directly influence American opinions about the 2016 election. As the nation’s intelligence agencies and the Senate Intelligence Committee have separately concluded, these efforts were calculated to help Mr. Trump’s candidacy for president and to denigrate his opponent’s. We also know that senior members of the Trump campaign, including the president’s son, son-in-law and campaign chairman, met with Russians who promised “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton. If there was in fact “no collusion,” as the president so often claims, it apparently was not for lack of trying. The special counsel has secured guilty pleas on serious federal felony charges from Trump associates, including Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; the deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; a former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen. What do all these men have in common? They lied to investigators about the nature of their relationships with foreign powers, and they worked for the Trump campaign. And that’s before we even start talking about Roger Stone. Regardless of whether efforts by Trump associates to coordinate with or benefit from interference by Russia or WikiLeaks were criminal, the fact that Mr. Trump and his campaign strategists sought to benefit from a foreign adversary’s efforts to undermine our democracy is one of the greatest breaches of public trust our country has ever witnessed. If Mr. Mueller ultimately determined that indicting the president’s associates for this conduct was not appropriate, that does not mean that there should not be consequences for this outrageous breach of trust. Though these and other findings have already been made public, many key questions remain. Chief among these is whether the special counsel found evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice by engaging in a pattern of conduct calculated to impede investigations of his campaign and his administration, including by firing Mr. Comey; attempting to force out the previous attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and pushing Mr. Sessions to reverse his recusal from the Russia inquiry; and potentially by dangling pardons to key defendants. Congress and the American people deserve to know the truth about the facts and circumstances of the president’s possibly obstructive acts. Obstruction of an investigation is not only criminal conduct, but also an affront to our system of government and the faith that the American people have in it. Equally important the report should begin to answer the crucial question that hangs over the entire Trump presidency: What did the president know and when did he know it? It is possible, for example, that Mr. Mueller may have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump knew in advance of the numerous interactions between high-level campaign officials and Russian operatives, or that he knew of the plan to disseminate the hacked emails at strategically important times. This type of explosive revelation could indicate that the president was intentionally helping a malicious foreign power undermine our democracy. If the president knew about this conduct — and continued to protect and reward high-level intermediaries like Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort when he assumed office — the public could rightfully question his fitness to continue to serve as president. The report may also shed light on why the special counsel has apparently declined to indict Mr. Trump. That it is Department of Justice policy not to indict a sitting president is well known. Given that, Mr. Mueller may have decided that some of Mr. Trump’s conduct, while deeply concerning, unacceptable or even potentially illegal, did not rise to the level of a chargeable offense in the presidential context. In such circumstances, the Justice Department is functionally deferring to Congress’s primary jurisdiction over presidential accountability and should transmit to Congress whatever materials are relevant, particularly to potential abuses of power. That is precisely why the entire report must be made available not only to the public’s representatives in Congress, but also to the public as a whole. The responsibility for holding to account any bad actors identified in the report, President Trump included, now falls on the American people and Congress. Without direct access to Mr. Mueller’s full report, Congress cannot responsibly decide whether to exercise its powers of oversight or impeachment, and the American people will be unable to make a fully informed decision about whether Mr. Trump can be trusted with the high office he occupies. The report, and the findings and evidence supporting it, must be released. Noah Bookbinder (@NoahBookbinder) is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c956ece49f0eacbf105e9a7", "date": "2019-03-22T23:23:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Right and Left React to the Mueller Report", "full_text": " The political news cycle is fast, and keeping up can be overwhelming. Trying to find differing perspectives worth your time is even harder. That’s why we have scoured the internet for political writing from the right and the left that you might not have seen. Kenneth W. Starr in The Atlantic: “… The special counsel cannot seek an indictment, and must remain quiet.” Mr. Starr, the independent counsel who oversaw the investigation that led to the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, made clear that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was subject to different rules from the ones he was in 1998, when he delivered a book-length report directly to Congress. “The drafters of the new regime — the one under which Mueller operates — set themselves firmly against the revolutionary principle of factually rich prosecutorial reports,” he wrote. “It might seem strange for me to say, but they were right to do so.” Read more. _____ Andrew C. McCarthy in National Review: “Well, if we’re going to have disclosure, fine. But let’s have full disclosure …” The president’s critics are demanding full disclosure of the special counsel’s report. Mr. McCarthy said he was not opposed to that, as long as full disclosure included information about how the investigation got started to begin with. Read more. _____ Madison Gesiotto in The Daily Caller: “Even the most liberal partisans know that Mueller’s report will be the death knell of the Russia collusion hoax they’ve been perpetuating …” Ms. Gesiotto, a supporter of President Trump, criticized journalists and television hosts for being biased and described what she called their “stages of grief” over the news that no further indictments were coming. Read more. Neal K. Katyal in The Washington Post: “Absolutely nothing in the law or the regulations prevents the report from becoming public.” Mr. Katyal, the former acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama who drafted the special counsel regulations in 1998 and 1999, said that Attorney General William P. Barr could and should release the report. The law, he wrote, gives “all the latitude in the world” to make the report public. Read more. _____ David A. Graham in The Atlantic: “But the president might find himself missing Mueller more than he expects.” Despite all the anticipation of the Mueller report, Mr. Graham wrote, few will be happy that it is finished. His argument: Democrats will no longer be able to use the continuing investigation as a reason to wait to act against President Trump. Republicans will also be forced to reckon with the president. And Mr. Trump, who has succeeded when he has a nemesis to rally against, will find himself without a villain. Read more. _____ David Remnick in The New Yorker: “The emergency that the Trump presidency represents leaves the Democratic Party’s cast of candidates with a singular responsibility — to win the election …” Mr. Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, wrote that it was unlikely that Mr. Trump would change his behavior after the Mueller report. Of the Democratic candidates for president in 2020, he suggested that the right one not only has to be able to win the election but also be up to the challenge of undoing the legacy of Mr. Trump’s “moral and material corruption.” Read more. Noah Feldman in Bloomberg: “The main takeaway from the news that broke Friday evening, then, is that the Constitution is working.” Mr. Feldman offered a reminder that the culmination of the Mueller report was “far from a foregone conclusion throughout much of the past two years.” Whatever the report says, he argued, the fact that it exists is a win for democracy. Read more. _____ Benjamin Wittes in Lawfare: “… To say that Mueller is not recommending further charges does not tell you all that much unless you know why he’s not recommending further charges.” Mr. Wittes cautioned against jumping to conclusions about the end of the Mueller investigation without knowing why it ended. Was there a finding of innocence? Or was the evidence not sufficient for prosecution? And, Mr. Wittes said, even if the subject of a criminal investigation claims vindication, that does not mean the person cannot not be judged morally. Read more. _____ Chris Cillizza in CNN: “We are likely to look back on Trump’s presidency — no matter what the report actually says — as ‘before Mueller report’ and ‘after the Mueller report.’” Though the Mueller investigation has taken up about 85 percent of Mr. Trump’s presidency, Mr. Cillizza argued, this milestone is just the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. Read more. Follow Sarah Mervosh on @Twitter: @smervosh    ", "id": "5c97b12a49f0eacbf105ec41", "date": "2019-03-24T16:31:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Subpoena Isn’t the Only Way to Get the Mueller Report", "full_text": " Ms. Divoll was the general counsel of the Senate Intelligence Committee from 2001 to 2003.  The House Judiciary Committee may be sitting on its subpoena for the Mueller report, but under federal law, certain other committees need neither a subpoena nor a court order to get access to it and its underlying materials, including grand jury testimony and documents. The House and Senate Intelligence Committees should already have certain investigative materials relating to Russian election meddling, in unredacted form, collected by the special counsel, Robert Mueller.  This legal structure was created by a provision in the Patriot Act combined with the notification provisions of the National Security Act. The intelligence committees have a lawful right, virtually unbounded, to foreign intelligence information in the possession of the intelligence agencies of the executive branch.  Federal law requires that the attorney general provide to the director of national intelligence any foreign intelligence information collected during a criminal investigation. Then the director must by law provide it to the intelligence committees of Congress — either by sending a notification or acting in response to a request from the committees. The director has an obligation to inform policymakers, including Congress, of intelligence assessments so that they can take steps to protect the American people. The process is not a partisan tool or a method to take down President Trump. It’s about national security.  The relevant federal statutes follow a two-stage process: First, the language of Section 3040 of Title 50 of the United States Code — part of the Patriot Act — mandates that the attorney general “shall expeditiously disclose to the director of national intelligence” foreign intelligence acquired in a criminal investigation (which may include limitations necessary to protect continuing investigations). Another provision of that act affects grand jury secrecy and disclosure. During the negotiations over the bill, the Justice Department wanted a “may share” exception to grand jury secrecy. Critically, however, the Senate Intelligence Committee insisted on a “must share” provision. If the process were working as it was designed, after the director of national intelligence receives relevant material from the Justice Department, the executive branch intelligence agencies would use it to assess and improve their own efforts in deciphering the plans, intentions and capabilities of foreign governments and entities. Second, when the information has moved to the director, 50 USC Section 3092 of the National Security Act kicks in. This requires the director, and all intelligence agencies under his control, to keep the congressional intelligence committees “fully and currently informed” of all intelligence activities (and any significant failures). Any information that arguably falls outside the notification provisions must, nevertheless, be handed over if the intelligence committees ask for it. In this case, if the attorney general had provided information from the Mueller investigation to the director, the director would have been obligated to notify the intelligence committees of the agencies’ activities based on that intelligence. If the director did not provide it, the congressional committees could and should have demanded the information. At least in the House, it looks like that didn’t happen. When Democrats took over this year, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Adam Schiff, ramped up its investigation, but statements by him suggest that the committee has not yet received foreign intelligence obtained during the Mueller investigation. So, by design or by ignorance, the executive branch agencies may not have followed the laws they have sworn to uphold. And the congressional committees may have failed to fulfill their oversight responsibilities. The House Intelligence Committee should demand immediate attention to the mandates of the Patriot and National Security Acts. The committee’s staff should make informal inquiries to determine whether, and the extent to which, William Barr, Jeff Sessions and Dan Coats provided this information to the intelligence committees. If the inquiry yields nothing or reveals that the law has not been followed, Mr. Barr, Mr. Coats and others in the executive branch should be called to testify before the committee. Even with the completion of the Mueller investigation, Mr. Barr has argued that grand jury information is sacrosanct and will be redacted from the materials he gives to Congress and the public. Yet the entire purpose of Section 3040, as well as the specific exception added to the grand jury secrecy rules themselves, were to require the identification and sharing of critical intelligence collected by law enforcement during an investigation, and certainly after it has ended.  Moreover, the constitutional requirements for congressional access mandate that the executive branch give all national security information to Congress — if the intelligence committees demand it. No court has ever ruled that the executive can withhold such information from Congress.  As a nation in 2001 we learned a very painful lesson, that keeping vital foreign intelligence from the intelligence agencies, and ultimately Congress, must give way in the face of potential terrorist attacks. If Mr. Barr wants to argue that attacks by foreign enemies on our democracy are any less critical to our national security than terrorism, we will see how Congress and the American people respond.  Vicki Divoll was general counsel of the Senate Intelligence Committee from 2001 to 2003 and is a former deputy legal adviser to the C.I.A.’s Counterterrorist Center. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cabd2cf49f0eacbf1f81b26", "date": "2019-04-08T23:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "We Don’t Need to Read the Mueller Report", "full_text": " Even if it is never released, the public already knows enough. Ms. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society. People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight. Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement. This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted. There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign. And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers. The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail. Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration. Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison. Then there is the president himself. From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence. And he has lied to the American people. The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties. Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found. Indeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation.  So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election.  Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about. Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.", "id": "5c955dd649f0eacbf105e971", "date": "2019-03-22T22:11:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "New Insights Into the Mueller Report", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Theo Balcomb, Lisa Tobin and Paige Cowett, and edited by Larissa Anderson The attorney general turned a report of nearly 400 pages into a four-page summary. Members of the special counsel’s team say something was lost. Thursday, April 4th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller team sent its report to the attorney general, William Barr. The attorney general sent a summary of that report to Congress. Now, new reporting shows members of Mueller’s team feel that Barr’s summary did not reflect the report they wrote. It’s Thursday, April 4. So take us back to the beginning of last week. What do we know at that point? nicholas fandos So we knew that Bill Barr, taking Bob Mueller’s 300- to 400-page report, had gone through it extensively and boiled down what he called the “principal conclusions” to just four pages. michael barbaro Nick Fandos covers Congress. Mike Schmidt covers national security. michael schmidt We were in this unusual situation where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, had sent his report to the attorney general, said, I found no evidence that the campaign conspired with Russia to impact the election. But he declined to make a decision on obstruction. nicholas fandos And what he said was Mueller didn’t reach what Barr called a “traditional prosecutorial decision.” In other words, Mueller presented evidence for the fact that the president may have obstructed justice but didn’t go as far as to conclude that he had. He essentially punted to the attorney general’s office. michael schmidt And in this case, by Mueller not reaching a determination, he leaves the door open for Barr to come in to say, O.K., Mueller didn’t make a determination on this issue of obstruction. He did on collusion. I’m going to look at all the facts. And he makes his determination — no case to be made here on both of these issues. The problem, though, is that the perception is that Mueller, the independent investigator who’s there to do an inquiry free of politics, has not made a call on this central question. But Barr, the president’s appointee, who’s been there just for a few months, is making the decision. So the question is, is the fix in? Why is it, if Mueller didn’t come to an answer, the attorney general did? michael barbaro So at the beginning of last week, we know that Mueller made the unusual decision not to make a call. And Barr made the unusual decision to make a call. And the question is, why? michael schmidt It’s not unusual that Barr made a call. The Justice Department is there to decide whether people broke the law or not. And he was doing that. What’s different and unusual here is that Barr and Mueller don’t look like they’re on the same page. [music]  michael schmidt Mueller said, I can’t make a determination on this issue. And Barr did. So why is it that they looked at it differently? Why was it that Mueller, the prosecutor here, didn’t do the one thing that prosecutors at the Justice Department do, which is make a call? nicholas fandos And that was the question that we’ve spent the last week trying to figure out. What is the difference here? What is the evidence that they’re looking at? And why did Mueller and Barr make the decisions that they made around this question of obstruction of justice? michael barbaro And what have we now learned? nicholas fandos What we’ve now learned is that nobody’s happy. The team that was working — or at least some of the team that was working with Bob Mueller feels that Barr stepped in and filled the vacuum in a way that didn’t properly capture what their 22-month investigation found. And Barr’s team feels that Bob Mueller fell short of doing his job. michael barbaro So let’s start with the Barr side. Explain more about why the attorney general and those around him are upset. michael schmidt So in not reaching a decision on obstruction of justice, Barr has to go out on his own and make that determination without the top cover of the independent investigator who went out and was supposed to make a determination on whether the president broke the law. michael barbaro And what do you mean by “top cover“? michael schmidt One of the reasons you have a special counsel is to insulate an investigation from politics and then, when the investigation is concluded, have a way of holding up the product of the inquiry, the fruits of it, to the public and saying, look, this was done free of politics. We assessed this matter based on the facts. And now you have a result that is exposed, at least in part, to the perception that the president’s guy made the decision. michael barbaro The attorney general. michael schmidt Correct. nicholas fandos Undercutting one of the key points of Mueller’s appointment in the first place. michael barbaro And you’re saying that the people in the Justice Department and that Barr himself are upset to be put in that position? michael schmidt Well, the system’s not working the way it’s supposed to. You had Mueller there for one reason — yea or nay on crimes. And on one of these central questions, he couldn’t get there. And by stepping back and saying, I don’t know, it allows at least the Democrats to say, what? How was this decision made? How did they get to this? How is it that the president’s political appointee was the ultimate decider? nicholas fandos And it gives them real credence to go and say, we need to see all the evidence. We need to see the whole file here because the president’s handpicked man made this decision. Maybe we’d reach a different conclusion if we looked at the evidence. Bob Mueller seems to have. michael barbaro So then why did Barr choose to make a call on obstruction of justice if he knew and was upset that this was going to be seen as hyper-political and that it would fan the flames of Democrats in Congress? nicholas fandos The problem for Barr was that when he got the report and looked at the evidence, to him, it was a pretty clear case that you would not press this kind of charge, that the president hadn’t obstructed justice. Now, you’ve got to remember that Barr comes to the job with a pretty expansive view of executive power. As Democrats made famous, he wrote a memo before he was appointed attorney general arguing that certain acts by the president shouldn’t be construed as obstruction of justice. They’re part of his executive powers. And so he looked at this and, I mean, he can’t make the same decision that Mueller did. Somebody has to make a choice about whether or not this is a chargeable offense. And he looked at it and says, well, in our judgment and this team’s judgment, it’s not. michael barbaro So Barr reads the report and thinks, what are you talking about it’s not clear whether or not there was obstruction of justice? There, in his mind, clearly wasn’t. nicholas fandos Barr does acknowledge that there is evidence, basically, of behavior that could be construed as obstructive. He gives credence to what Mueller is presenting but says, when you add it all up, it doesn’t tip into — michael schmidt Criminality. nicholas fandos — criminal obstructive territory. michael barbaro Right. And while it felt political for Barr to reach a conclusion, to make a call that Mueller wouldn’t, I have to think it would have felt even more political in Barr’s mind for Congress to be the one to perform that role. And so he was upset to have to make this call, but, it sounds like, felt that he had to. michael schmidt I don’t know if he’s upset as much as he looks at this situation and says, this is not the way it’s supposed to be working. Someone needs to make a decision on whether the president broke the law. I’ll step in and do that. And I think I can do that based on the facts. nicholas fandos And Congress can still play a role. I’m redacting the report. I’ll give it to you with sensitive information blacked out. And then you can make your own judgment. But the public has an intense interest in this. And I’ve got to say something. And I decide whether acts broke the law or not. And I don’t think this one did. michael barbaro Do we know if Mueller’s team expected Barr to make this call on obstruction of justice after they declined to do so? nicholas fandos We don’t know precisely what the Mueller team expected on this obstruction question. It seems that they were not clear in communicating to the Justice Department what they wanted. It may not have mattered anyway. But what we do know is that after Barr came out with this four-page summary, which essentially exonerated the president on collusion and said he did not break the law on obstruction, some members of Mr. Mueller’s team felt that he had inadequately and only partially represented the work of their 22-month investigation. michael barbaro So this is the other side of your reporting — that not only was the Barr side disappointed with the Mueller side, the Mueller side was disappointed with the Barr side. nicholas fandos What we have learned is that since Barr made his public statement about a week ago, members of the Mueller team have told associates that they feel, essentially, that his work — if it wasn’t misrepresentative of theirs — didn’t give the full picture, which they believe is more damaging to the president than the attorney general’s letter lets on. Now, we are not saying that every member of the Mueller team is frustrated by this. We don’t know what Bob Mueller himself thinks. He remains one of the black boxes at the center of this investigation. But there are members of the team who were involved in the decision-making around these issues that we’ve been talking about who have watched and been disappointed and angry about how it’s being characterized. michael barbaro And what is the focus of their disappointment, to the degree you understand it? nicholas fandos So when they read Bill Barr’s concise four-page letter, they were frustrated that he had not drawn more from their own work. And in fact, what we discovered in reporting this piece out is that they had prepared summaries of their own work that were part of the report that they handed over to the Justice Department a couple of weeks ago and felt that some of that material could have easily been drawn into what Mr. Barr handed over. So not that he shouldn’t have made a decision about whether the president obstructed justice or not in a criminal sense, but that concurrent with that, he should have put out more of their evidence or analysis to fill out the public picture. The Justice Department says those summaries had sensitive information in them, classified information, secretive grand jury information that couldn’t become public, and ultimately didn’t use any of it. michael schmidt So what Mueller’s folks are essentially saying is, hey, we wrote these summaries. If you were going to go out and say something about this investigation, and you were going to do something as extreme or as declarative as clearing the president, why is it that you didn’t include some of the things that we found? michael barbaro And specifically, why didn’t you include some stuff that we found that was pretty damning? You’re making it seem like the president didn’t do anything wrong. michael schmidt Donald Trump has come out in the days after Barr’s declaration and said the Mueller report was beautiful. And it completely exonerates him. If you’re an investigator who spent the last two years looking at Donald Trump, and you think there’s a lot of questionable behavior there, that is something that is going to irritate you mightily. michael barbaro I mean, do either of you think that the Mueller people have a legitimate point here? Or is this a classic case of pride of authorship? They wanted to see their work in the public summary. nicholas fandos I don’t think that we fully know. What seems clear in our reporting is that there was no specific communication or agreement by the Mueller team to the Barr team — you should use these things, or we want these things to be out. They seem to have had an intention. And they certainly now have a regret about it. But we don’t know what interaction there was in the actual decision-making process that happened that weekend two weeks ago. michael barbaro Well, so why do we think that Barr chose not to include more of what was in these summaries, especially the negative material, in his four-page summary? michael schmidt I think there’s one big, broad reason and another contemporary reason, the broad reason being that Barr and many Justice Department officials and, for many years, prosecutors believe that if they decide not to charge someone, the fruits of the investigation should not be just thrown out there for the public or for the enemies of the person who were investigated. michael barbaro Dirty laundry should not be aired if the subject of those dirty laundry are not charged with a crime. michael schmidt If you cannot meet this incredibly high bar of bringing a federal prosecution, that doesn’t mean you then get to just take the trash and just throw it out in the street and let the public rummage through it. michael barbaro And Mike, by the contemporary example you referred to, I’m assuming you’re talking about James Comey. michael schmidt I’m talking about the July 2016 press conference that James Comey held. It’s right in the heat of the presidential election. He stands up and says, we, the F.B.I., have done this investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email account. We don’t think there is a case to be made here. But we found some very questionable behavior in how she handled sensitive national security secrets. The press conference was seen as very damaging to Clinton even though a case was never made. michael barbaro And so you’re saying that Barr’s view would be, I’m not going to be the one to replicate that by drawing from these Mueller team summaries and putting those out into the public sphere. michael schmidt Correct. We don’t use criminal investigations to go out and find damaging things that may not be crimes that we then simply release to the public to be used against someone. nicholas fandos The problem is, this was never a normal or average criminal investigation. It has broad national security implications. And it has implications for almost every decision that’s made at the highest levels of the government. michael schmidt This is more about a pathway of how you deal with the president’s conduct. And what it appears from the Mueller side is that they’re saying, look, this is the president of the United States. There’s some conduct here that we think the public and Congress should see. And O.K., Justice Department, it may not be criminal. But this is the president. And this needs to be examined more thoroughly by the political process and by Congress. It’s about a pathway of dealing with the president. nicholas fandos And Bill Barr doesn’t seem to disagree with that, fundamentally. He said throughout that he wants to make as much of this report public as possible. But he doesn’t think that that absolves him of the Justice Department’s role of saying whether or not the president or his campaign broke the law. And so he’s grappling with the Justice Department’s aversion to talk about individuals that it’s not saying broke the law. But yet he knows that the public and the Congress want and probably are owed more information about what did happen. And so he’s kind of operating somewhere in the middle of those two things. michael schmidt The difference here is that if I was under investigation, and the Justice Department determined that I didn’t break the law, then there’s no other process that really needs to be dealt with me. Maybe my company needs to decide whether I get fired or not for that conduct. In this instance, there’s another issue with the president. O.K., the president didn’t break the law. But maybe the president did things with his power that the public should know about, Congress should know about, and need to be more closely examined. Because maybe it’s not just about breaking the law. It’s about how he conducted himself as president. And does Congress need to deal with that? And what we are starting to see from Mueller’s side is this frustration that, hey, we think there’s some bad stuff that happened here. But by Barr coming out and not disclosing that but saying the president didn’t break the law, he is casting the die on how the public will later look at the president’s conduct. It will say that for several weeks after we finished our report, the only thing that was out there was Bill Barr saying the president didn’t break the law, and the president turning around and saying, I was fully exonerated. And they’re saying, hey, America, we think more of this process needs to play out. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt So this all comes down to the vexing question of, how do we investigate a sitting president? And how is that done in a way that the public has the utmost confidence in that? And in that is this tension between how much independence the investigator should have. In Nixon, that pendulum swung too far in the president’s direction. In the Starr investigation of Clinton, it went the other way. The investigator had too much power. And here, between Mueller and Barr’s teams, they are fighting that same fight and have different understandings of how this should all be dealt with. And it’s the same issue that we’ve been looking at for 50 years, just the latest episode of it. michael barbaro So inside of one presidential investigation, these two teams are embodying all the tensions that have basically been present since Watergate. nicholas fandos Correct. michael schmidt It’s how much you can tell the public, and how is apparent misconduct by the president dealt with? And there’s no clear pathway on that. So whatever Barr does will be viewed by one side as political and laying on the brakes for the president. Whatever Mueller does will be viewed by the president’s enemies as trying to get him. And the confidence in that process then erodes. And it’s messy. And it’s hard to figure out. What are the real facts here? What really happened? michael barbaro But at this point, we’re just talking about the summary that Bill Barr sent to Congress. We’re still waiting on the full report. So won’t this tension that you’re describing eventually be more or less resolved when we learn how much information we’ll ultimately have access to? nicholas fandos It may be. And we may see a very different set of facts at the end of the day. But I think the question here is about who sets the narrative for the intervening period of time. It may end up being a month before we see a fuller version of the Mueller report. And for that time, Bill Barr’s conclusion that the president didn’t break the law is going to be the dominant narrative. And I think that what we’re hearing from members of the Mueller team is a concern that by the time their fuller work does come out, the narrative is baked — so much so that even if it shows, for instance, that the president didn’t break the law but abused his office or conducted acts that Congress will deem inappropriate for his office, that there’s not room to have a full debate around that, that the conclusions about the work that they did for 22 months will have been prejudged at that point, and that it won’t quite matter what the report says for the president’s political fate. michael barbaro Nick, Mike, thank you very much. nicholas fandos Thank you guys. michael schmidt Thanks for having us. archived recording (jerry nadler) The committee has a job to do. The Constitution charges Congress with holding the president accountable for alleged official misconduct. michael barbaro On Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee voted to authorize the use of subpoenas to obtain a full copy of the Mueller report. archived recording (jerry nadler) That job requires us to evaluate the evidence for ourselves — not the attorney general’s summary, not a substantially redacted synopsis, but the full report and the underlying evidence. michael barbaro The committee’s chairman, Democratic representative Jerry Nadler of New York, said he would not immediately issue a subpoena. But his power to do so will intensify pressure on the attorney general, William Barr, to quickly release an unredacted copy of the report. archived recording (jerry nadler) I will give him time to change his mind. But if we cannot reach an accommodation, then we will have no choice but to issue subpoenas for these materials. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [music]  michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. A Times analysis of deadly terror attacks involving white extremists has found that at least a third of them were inspired by fellow white men who carried out similar attacks and had either professed admiration for them or interest in their tactics. In one case, a school shooter in New Mexico corresponded with a gunman who attacked a mall in Munich. All together, the two men killed 11 people. The connections between the killers crossed continents and highlight how the internet and social media have spread white extremism. And — archived recording (joe biden) I’ve always tried to be — in my career, I’ve always tried to make a human connection. That’s my responsibility, I think. I shake hands. I hug people. I grab men and women by the shoulders and say, you can do this. michael barbaro On Wednesday, former vice president Joe Biden responded to a series of complaints from women that his close physical contact had made them uncomfortable. archived recording (joe biden) Our social norms have begun to change. They’ve shifted. And the boundaries of protecting personal space have been reset. And I get it. I get it. I hear what they’re saying. I understand it. michael barbaro In a video message sent as Biden prepares for a possible presidential run, he defended his behavior but said he is able to change. archived recording (joe biden) But I’ll always believe governing, quite frankly — life, for that matter — is about connecting. michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher The special counsel’s team sent its report to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who sent a summary of that report to Congress. But some members of the special counsel’s team have told associates that their findings are more troubling for President Trump than Mr. Barr indicated. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Nicholas Fandos, who covers Congress for The New York Times. Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The Times. Background reading: At stake in the dispute over the special counsel’s report is who shapes the public’s initial understanding of one of the most consequential government investigations in American history.  Here’s a look at the federal criminal inquiries that have grown out of the special counsel investigation.  Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Nicholas Fandos and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “New Insights Into the Mueller Report” was produced by Theo Balcomb, Lisa Tobin and Paige Cowett, and edited by Larissa Anderson. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5ca5c7f849f0eacbf1f80d1a", "date": "2019-04-04T09:00:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Who Botched the Mueller Report?", "full_text": " transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt And should we abolish the Electoral College? Thursday, March 28th, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt and this is “The Argument.” This week: the Mueller investigation. Did we all blow it out of proportion? ross douthat Yeah I mean, my response is short and sweet: No collusion! Witch hunt! david leonhardt Then, is it finally time to abolish the Electoral College? michelle goldberg And I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. david leonhardt And finally, a recommendation. michelle goldberg And both of those things seem like more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt The Mueller investigation is over. news clip The president who had long branded the investigation derisively as a witch hunt is now embracing its conclusion as vindication. david leonhardt Donald Trump’s critics feel let down. Trump himself is feeling vindicated. Which raises the question is the Trump Russia story less of a big deal than Democrats, national security officials, the media and many others have made it out to be? Ross, Michelle and I are going to talk about that. We’re gonna have some sharp disagreements about Mueller today and I hope they will help you clarify your own thoughts. I’m going to go first briefly and answer that question with a, “Yes, but.” I do think the expectations for the Mueller report got a little out of hand, including my own. Based on what we know so far Mueller seems to have found less evidence of a relationship between the Trump campaign and Russia than many people expected. But the caveat is also important which is that Mueller uncovered a lot of criminal and unpatriotic behavior by Trump’s inner circle. And I’m really reluctant to draw final conclusions until we’ve seen the actual Mueller report not the four page summary written by William Barr who is after all a Trump appointee. Michelle why don’t you go next. Are you suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome? michelle goldberg So it’s not that I’m suffering from Mueller disappointment syndrome. I am absolutely enraged at the way that this is all being spun and covered by much of the media. I mean I just cannot believe what I am watching happening and the amount of gaslighting and misinformation. You know and as you know I kind of objected to this framing for the show, right? I thought that the question should be has Trump been exonerated? With the answer being obviously not. So just to back up, I mean, you guys remember — maybe you remember — a few months ago I said that my feeling about this has always been summarized by the Passover song, “Dayenu,” which means it would have been enough. And that’s really how I feel about Trump being a traitor who should be impeached. So what I hoped for the Mueller Report was not that it would reveal that Trump is even worse than I believe him to be. I did have hope that it would convince Republicans to finally show at least like a modicum of patriotism in forcing them to stand up to him. And obviously that’s not happened and in fact they’ve sort of now doubled down on their misinformation and we’re now in a country where our two competing realities are so dug in and solidified that it almost feels like there’s no way back for us as a nation. But people always said well he might not find conspiracy which is the crime but we can expect that he’ll probably find obstruction. And so it looks like what happened — although we don’t know — is that he released this report. He didn’t find evidence of a crime or at least he didn’t find evidence that rose to the level of being able to prove a crime beyond a reasonable doubt. He found significant evidence of obstruction of justice but decided not to make a traditional prosecutorial judgment, presumably because of the DOJ regulations that say a sitting president can’t be prosecuted. And they spun this so well by kind of releasing this highly tendentious summary written by an attorney general handpicked for the purpose of covering this thing up. They released this thing. He kind of says well I’ve concluded there’s no obstruction of justice. They start screaming, “Exoneration!” Even though the report specifically says it does not exonerate Trump and sort of the whole media has this kind of whiplash and they’re still bullied by the belligerence of the right that they kind of go along with this narrative that none of us have any idea if it’s supported by the underlying documents. ross douthat My response is is short and sweet: No collusion! [LEONHARDT LAUGHS] Witch hunt! That’s all I got. david leonhardt That’s it? ross douthat I’m totally vindicated. michelle goldberg Ross, I am angrier at you than usual today. david leonhardt Ross, I was going to congratulate you on having been somewhat prescient but you’re not really putting me in the mood to congratulate you. ross douthat No collusion! No collusion! Witch hunt! That’s all. Alright, no, I’ll make an argument. So look I wrote a column where I stole an argument from Matt Taibbi who is a sort of left-wing, angry, muckraking gadfly of a journalist who wrote a long piece over the weekend arguing that the way the media covered the Russia controversy — Russiagate, l’affaire russe, whatever you want to call it — was way worse than the way they covered W.M.D. in Iraq. And in channeling this argument I disagreed with it a little bit. I think comparing Russiagate to the W.M.D. controversy sort of founders on the fact that the Russiagate controversy has not actually led us into a war with Russia, happily, whereas the W.M.D. controversy did lead us into an actual mostly disastrous war. But I think the comparison is useful and I think you can see why it’s useful in the way Michelle made her argument. Which is that, you know, after it turned out that there really weren’t any W.M.D. in Iraq and that Saddam Hussein was not actually masterminding a conspiracy with Al Qaeda, people who supported the Iraq War would fall back and say, “Well look, O.K., there weren’t WMD. And Saddam wasn’t in bed with Al Qaeda. But he was a horrible dictator who gassed his own people and was a source of regional instability and there were still all kinds of reasons why he should have been removed from power and why the Iraq War was a good idea.” And that was all fine but it was still the case that there was this huge amount of media coverage and political argument pinning a huge amount of emphasis on these claims that Saddam had W.M.D. and maybe was working with Al Qaeda. And all of that turned out to be false. And in a similar way, yes, of course Michelle is right. There remain all kinds of reasons to think that Donald Trump is a bad person who behaved badly with regard to Russian hacking of Hillary Clinton and that he should not be president. But it remains the case that a huge amount of media attention, statements by former national security officials, by former heads of the intelligence community, endless coverage on MSNBC was all premised on the idea that this was going to end with evidence of serious sustained collaboration of some kind between Trump’s campaign and Russian intelligence. And that’s not true. So it’s a big deal that it’s not true. michelle goldberg So even a lot of the kind of maximalist versions of the Russiagate story which are not just that Trump was actively collaborating but that he was — the other version of that is that he was sort of compromised and being manipulated. And even that version, that he’s compromised and being manipulated, nothing in the Barr letter rules that out at all. In part because being compromised and manipulated is not necessarily a crime that would be part of the counter-intelligence part of this probe, about which we still know basically nothing. The final thing I want to say is that what really reminds me of the Iraq War is that there was such belligerence among pro-war proponents. There was this sort of like concentrated onslaught, it was kind of an information onslaught, although it was pre-social media, that it kind of knocked you off balance. Right? Particularly if you’re a liberal, if you’re the sort of person that always assumes that truth is elusive and that other people might have a point. And I remember, you know, I was in my 20s then feeling discombobulated, right? Like maybe all these people who are so sure are right and that’s what this campaign reminds me of. This like relentless like, “When are you going to apologize?” You know that’s what it feels like. ross douthat But so and I mean I guess, you know, this is — we can’t resolve this perfectly and I do want to say that of course you’re right, that it is completely possible that there is material in the actual Mueller report that will make the Barr letter look like a lawyered up document that concealed some realities. With that being said, I think it’s generally unlikely that Robert Mueller, who knows what’s in his own report, who has known Barr for a long time, and who has shown a perfect willingness to correct the record at various points in the past, would sort of willingly let himself be played in this way. But we’ll see we’ll find out over the next few weeks as the actual report comes out. michelle goldberg Right but what I think is happening or what I think could be happening is not that he’s letting himself be played and that like he doesn’t think that the truth is ever going to come out, but that what the Trump administration is doing is that by getting a head start and sort of setting the terms of the debate early, they’re muddying the waters in a way that people aren’t going to kind of be able to make sense of what comes next. Right? So if Barr weren’t a political hack long experienced in covering up Republican scandals and if he hadn’t been chosen for exactly that reason, then you can imagine a headline in which the story is Mueller didn’t establish crimes related to coordination or conspiracy. He did find significant evidence of other crimes, obstruction. And that evidence, you know kind of in keeping with the precedents of other special counsels, should now be turned over to Congress to be evaluated. Right? Instead sort of he stepped in so that the point is not to kind of convince anybody who is a close follower of this administration that Barr is capable of absolving the president. The point is just to kind of create confusing headlines and give them a talking point. david leonhardt I mean clearly if we’re trying to think about the overall feel that someone who consumed a lot of media would have gotten, yes, I think, I understand you disagree Michelle, but I think that what we know so far suggests that the outcome in the Mueller investigation is going to be less than what people would have thought. On the other hand I don’t think this is a case where when you look back at the reporting that was done by the people actually trying to report this out — people at The New York Times and the Washington Post and a lot of other places — there aren’t a lot of stories that they got wrong here. I think a lot of it was the interpretation. Ross, do you disagree with that? I mean this isn’t like W.M.D. where you can look back and say wow, that story really looks wrong. ross douthat I mean I think the reason that folks like Taibbi and other sort of left-wing critics of the media are so upset is that the locus of really bad reporting was MSNBC. And not so much reporting even as sort of coverage as like the kind of people that Rachel Maddow had on night after night to analyze this. And in that sense it’s understandable that people on the left who were skeptical of this would find it particularly upsetting because MSNBC is supposed to be obviously the left-of-center channel. But I think the worst of it was there and I think that the problems in the mainstream press were more about sort of narrative and omission. It’s not that people were specifically getting things wrong all the time, although there were a lot of cases of you know, the McClatchy report supposedly confirming that Cohen had gone to Prague, and of stories that were sort of hung out there by a single outlet and never confirmed. But in general it was more a sort of tenor issue. It was that there would be tons of reporting about low-level Trump campaign aides’s connections to Russian officials and a lot less reporting about how as time went on, most of what was in the Steele dossier looked more and more bogus, right? That would be my sort of broader press critique. That it was more that when things weren’t panning out there was less coverage than there was of, say, you know Michael Flynn talking to the Russian ambassador and so on. david leonhardt I would say let’s see the Mueller report because I think there’s a chance that although individual stories like the McClatchy story appear to have been wrong, I think there’s a good chance that much of the beat reporting on this is going to look quite solid in the end. But we have to wait and see. Okay now let’s talk about what’s going to happen next. Michelle, where do you see House Democrats going with this and where do you want them to go? michelle goldberg I’m not quite sure where I think they should go because I actually do feel like what we’re seeing so far looks like something of a cover up where Barr is trying to spin this one way and is already sort of seized the narrative and I really want Democrats to set the record straight. I’m glad that they have given him an April 2nd deadline to show them the report. So I do think that they need to agitate and do as much as possible to get the report out there and you know I feel like the line going forward should be, “If this exonerates you then why are you hiding it?” And I think it’s extremely important that the Intelligence Committee not be intimidated out of pursuing the counterintelligence implications of all of that. You know at the same time Democratic candidates have never really wanted to talk about this stuff so from just like a political perspective, it seems to make sense for them to sort of you know let the Judiciary Committee do its job, let the intelligence committee do its job. But you know kind of take the gift-wrapped present that Trump’s Justice Department gave us when it signaled that it wanted the Supreme Court to overturn the entire Affordable Care Act. And you know kind of start running against the very many other depredations that Trump is inflicting on this country. david leonhardt I was struck by that contrast too. I mean the idea that the Trump administration kicked out of the headlines the coverage of Barr’s summary of the Mueller report to try to take away health insurance from people I found to be a remarkable bit of political malpractice. And Ross I assume you agree that the idea of Democrats essentially trying to focus on pocketbook issues and running against Trump as a president who hasn’t improved people’s lives is a much better tactic for Democrats than scandal mongering? And in that way this might not actually have been the worst week for the Democratic Party. ross douthat I totally agree. This was a bad week if you were a Republican who was hoping that there would be a primary challenge to Donald Trump. This sort of removes one of the obvious ways that Trump could sort of fall apart politically. He’s much less likely to fall apart politically, much less likely to face a strong challenger, will be therefore somewhat stronger for re-election, but all of the other ways in which the Democrats have successfully attacked Trump and can successfully attack Trump are still there. I think the health care example which, I mean, I think most conservative policy people and legal people think this challenge is a little bit ridiculous. So it’s a case of Trump doing something that seems sort of purely partisan and doesn’t even have much intellectual heft behind it. But it’s also — the most unpopular things Trump has done have all been in the area of trying to repeal and replace Obamacare. And to the extent that this pushes us towards a health care conversation and away from a Russia conversation, elected Democrats may be very happy that it happened. david leonhardt Let’s end by talking about the 2020 candidates. Ross, you called our attention to this interesting piece written by Tyler Cowen, an economist, arguing about how the Mueller report might affect Joe Biden’s candidacy. So tell the listeners about that. ross douthat I’m not sure if I agree with this but Cowen is a smart guy and he basically argues that Biden is selling himself, presumably, as a sort of custodial candidate. A kind of return to normalcy candidate. You know, his advisers are even talking about the one-term pledge idea that older politicians often think about floating and he’s sort of an embodiment of, you know, the kind of Washington establishment that has always been most upset about Trump as a kind of norm violator and possible Putin cat’s paw. So in all of those ways you could argue that this weakens his candidacy. You know, if you just want to get Trump out because you think Putin is running our foreign policy, then getting Biden in makes more sense. But if it’s ultimately an election about domestic policy and domestic priorities then I think other Democrats maybe have more of a case to make. And the strongest argument for Biden maybe looks a little weaker. david leonhardt And Michelle you get the last word. How do you think the end of the Mueller investigation affects the Democrats in 2020? michelle goldberg I mean I have to say what Ross just said — like you know I’ve been really upset this week, again. Not just because the dream of Trump being led out of the White House in handcuffs has died, although you know that would be a spectacular and life-affirming thing. You know what’s upsetting to me is what I said: that you know Republicans feel so gleeful and emboldened and I think people are sort of lying down on the job of opposing them. But Ross has now presented a true silver lining of this turn of events. Right? Because if this can help end the rationale for Joe Biden’s candidacy before it even begins then I will almost say it was all worth it. david leonhardt And on that note we will end this segment. We’ll be right back. Two of our last three presidents have been elected despite losing the popular vote. And in Trump’s case he lost it by a lot. We are living in an era of minority rule, as Michelle has written. So last week Senator Elizabeth Warren called for an end to the electoral college. senator elizabeth warren Get rid of the electoral college. [CHEERS]. david leonhardt Her call has ignited a long simmering debate about it. Ross, you get to go first in this discussion. Tell us why you hate democracy and love the Electoral College. ross douthat Well, so, we just did a segment where I was you know full of my own self-righteousness and totally, totally convinced of all the arguments I was making and this one is going to be a little different. I’m not a strong devout believer in the Electoral College. I think it’s obviously a kind of jerry-rigged system that doesn’t do exactly what its original designers intended. And it certainly isn’t how I would design a system from scratch. At the same time the sort of scale of liberal certainty about getting rid of it inspires me to mount at least partial defenses. So I guess I’d just make a couple of points. The first is that it’s hardly abnormal to have political systems that deliver various forms of minority rule. It’s quite common in parliamentary systems to end up with minority prime ministers and minority government. So the way we get there and the U.S. is unique in our own you know American distinctive kind of way, but it’s hardly unknown in the developed world to have minority governments end up elected for one reason or the other. And — and this is my more counterintuitive point — I don’t think it’s actually the worst thing to have a system that basically tells you if you get to 50.1 percent of the vote you aren’t actually guaranteed of winning. And the way you guarantee victory is by getting to 53 or 54 or 55 percent of the vote. I think that that kind of system incentivizes parties against polarized politics. It creates an incentive against the kind of politics that we’ve had increasingly in our country and I think historically that’s how it’s worked. Now we haven’t come out of our current era of polarization which is why we keep having these outcomes and I think in the long run if we can’t get out of it then the Electoral College does become a pathway to constitutional crisis. But I think historically it’s actually worked in a more interesting way than some of its critics think. michelle goldberg I mean to me the Electoral College is intolerable just because it has given us two minority presidents within a very short period of time after many, many decades when the idea of somebody winning the presidency despite losing the popular vote was treated as this sort of like outré hypothetical that could possibly happen, but you know nobody living had ever seen it. And now it’s just a reality and it’s a reality that Trump could win re-election despite losing the popular vote by even more. And at a certain point if the majority of the country believes that their government is intolerable and can do nothing about it and can do nothing about the system that creates that outcome. I mean it’s a recipe for regime crisis and I sort of feel like if you know our country we’re a little bit younger and more vigorous there would have been a regime crisis already. ross douthat I mean I, this is, again, where I’m not making any kind of absolutist argument. I think if you get outcomes like 2016 and 2000 over and over again it does, it will ultimately lead to regime crisis. But I also think when we talk about polarization, the polarization that we’re experiencing is a distinctive somewhat unique thing in American history. The Electoral College has been around for more than 200 years. We have therefore hundreds of years of data on how it usually works. And my argument is just that historically what happens is you have brief periods of ideological or regional polarization and then you might say that the College creates incentives for parties to try and get out of them quickly because, as you say, the Democrats right now are looking at a situation where they could win the popular vote again and still lose to Trump. And that should, in my theory, create an incentive for Democrats to work harder to get towards Reaganesque or Rooseveltian majorities which is what our country actually needs to escape the cycle of polarization. david leonhardt I want to talk about one of those defenses that drives me nuts which is the idea that if you say we should get rid of the electoral college you’re saying that rural people don’t matter. Whereas all you’re saying is that all Americans should be treated equally. I’m not saying that people in Wyoming or Alaska or Vermont matter less than people in Texas or California. I’m just saying they should all matter equally. And I guess, Ross, I’m curious, as a partial defender of the Electoral College, is there some more serious version of that argument that I’m missing? I just don’t get it. ross douthat Well I think the version of the argument that I agree with is that it’s good in the system to have means by which distinctive minorities, political minorities can find political leverage without having to get to 51 or 52 percent of the vote in a national election. I don’t think a system where the 51 percent always win and the 49 percent always lose has some perfect legitimacy just because 51 percent is bigger than 49 percent. But I think that’s actually more a defense of the Senate than the Electoral College. I would defend the Senate more on those grounds. I think it’s good to create leverage points for regional, rural and so on populations that can end up neglected as I think a portion of the American population in the Midwest and Greater Appalachia has been neglected over the last 20 years. But I think the Senate does that more effectively than the Electoral College does and so that kind of leverage would survive even if you move to a popular vote. I want to ask you guys though to design your perfect system. Because the question isn’t just whether you get rid of the Electoral College, right, it’s what replaces it? How do you elect a president? david leonhardt I guess I am comfortable with a national popular vote. I understand there are risks of some sort of massive national recount that are are nightmarish. And I think it’s worth taking that seriously. So I’d be open to some sort of more proportional state based system where we get a lot closer to popular vote. But I really think that the downsides of the Electoral College absolutely swamp the downsides of a national popular vote system. ross douthat But then it’s a national popular vote with or without a runoff? david leonhardt I mean, as we’ve talked about, I’m a big fan of this idea of ranked-choice voting. So I don’t think I would do a runoff. I’m perfectly comfortable with the idea of, you vote once. You rank your candidates and if you ranked a third party candidate first then then you go to your vote next. michelle goldberg Yeah I agree. That’s I mean to be honest I haven’t given this a huge amount of thought. I mean basically I just think you should get rid of the Electoral College and have a national popular vote. But the mechanism of that vote is not something I thought about a lot. But, you know, I’m a big fan like David of ranked-choice voting in congressional elections or in state elections. Like Maine has adopted it. I think more states should adopt it. And so I can’t think of an argument against using that at the national level. ross douthat Well I mean I’m not wildly against that idea but I think every idea that you come up with creates potential downside. One thing the Electoral College definitely does is make it very hard for a third-party challenger to really challenge for the presidency unless they have a sort of concentrated regional support. Like Ross Perot, the last really successful third-party candidate, really didn’t get any electoral votes. michelle goldberg Wait but Ross, you like third parties! ross douthat No I’m not — I’m just playing around here a little bit. Right? No, I don’t think that would be so terrible but it would create a situation where someone like Howard Schultz, who neither of you guys particularly like right now, has more of an incentive to get in and help make Donald Trump president, maybe, than he would under the Electoral College system. I mean it’s the “Green Book” problem. At last I get to make an Oscar analogy, right? “Green Book” won best picture despite being, I think by general agreement, a kind of mediocre movie because nobody really hated it and people ranked it pretty high on their ranked-choice voting. But probably at least one other and maybe many other movies got more number one votes for best picture but they still lost to “Green Book.” So the ranked choice system delivers you the inoffensive president who people dislike the least, potentially, while denying the nomination to someone who maybe gets the actual most votes. And maybe that’s fine. But it is a change. michelle goldberg O.K. So that’s worth thinking through and I actually find the “Green Book” possibility very scary and persuasive. It still sounds better to me to have a system in which the sort of “meh” candidate has a chance of winning than a candidate that is virulently hated by a majority of the population. ross douthat Yeah I mean I think what’s definitely true is that the Electoral College was supposed to create impediments basically to demagogues. Right? michelle goldberg Right — the electoral college was supposed to stop people like Trump. And in that respect it’s obviously failed. ross douthat Yes. And the Electoral College in that sense also makes more sense in a system with stronger political parties, which we no longer have. I think that Trump himself, the fact that he could win despite the Electoral College, does show that it’s not doing one of the jobs the founders envisioned for it. At the same time, I think Hillary Clinton deserved to lose the last election because of how she campaigned. So I can’t help feeling that Trump’s election also makes a kind of case for the Electoral College in this strange way. david leonhardt To me one of the most exciting things about getting rid of the Electoral College would be all of the places that have been wholly ignored during presidential campaigns that no longer would be. I mean our colleague Jamelle Bouie pointed out that inland California, a place with huge numbers of conservative voters almost totally ignored in presidential campaigns, would no longer be. Or big cities in Texas where there are a lot of Democratic voters. It would basically take all these people who’ve been left out of the process and and involve them again. And that’s why the idea excites me. ross douthat I mean I guess that argument to me makes more sense if we were living through an era of sort of massive political disengagement where nobody’s voting and voter turnout is falling and so on and that doesn’t seem to overall be the kind of era we’re necessarily living through, right? Like I feel like the case for a constitutional amendment to make sure that you get slightly higher turnout in rural California is not the decisive case in the way that that regime crisis case seems to me to be the much stronger case. david leonhardt I mean yes and no. Voter turnout rates among people under the age of 30 or 40 or pretty horrifically low. And so if a 25-year-old living in the inland empire of California or living in Dallas said to me, my vote doesn’t matter at all, there’s a way in which they’re right about that. And so to me the idea of making people feel like we have a more responsive political system has some inherent value to it. This could actually happen. A whole bunch of states, including California and New York, have passed laws saying they will devote their Electoral College votes to the winner of the popular vote so long as enough states do so. And in fact if you count it up we’re two thirds of the way toward having that actually happen. If a Republican were to lose when winning the popular vote and a few Republican states were to pass this legislation, I think we’re actually closer to the Electoral College not functionally mattering than a lot of people realize. So it’s a good time to dig into the upsides and downsides of it. That will do it for our Electoral College discussion. We’ll be right back with our weekly recommendation. Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation, when we give you a suggestion that is meant to take your mind off of politics. This week it’s my turn and I am going to make a recommendation that is borne out of sadness, unfortunately. An economist by the name of Alan Krueger recently committed suicide at the age of 58. He was an enormously important and influential economist. I knew Alan somewhat. I’d interviewed him many times. And one of his areas of research was happiness. What makes human beings happy. And I once asked him when I was interviewing him whether any of the research he had done had affected his own view about what to do. And he gave me two pieces of really lovely and obviously quite poignant, in retrospect, pieces of advice. And I just wanted to share them. The first is he said that the data shows that hanging out with friends really makes people happy in a way that nothing else does. In a way that work doesn’t, even in a way that hanging out with relatives doesn’t. And so he took that and said even at the end of a long day or long week when he was tired, if he was debating whether to go to a party or whether to do something with friends, even if in the moment he didn’t want to do it, the data tried to push him to do it more often. And the second piece of advice, which is something that I find myself following all the time now, is he said that people don’t really value objects that they get as gifts. They appreciate the thought but the object usually isn’t that useful to them. But they do really value experiences. And so it would make sense to kind of nudge our gifts a little bit more toward giving people experiences. You can take someone out for coffee. You can take them out to dinner. The story Alan told me is he splurged and he took his dad to a Super Bowl to watch his dad’s beloved New York Giants, and then he got a souvenir from the game framed and hung it in his office so he could look at it all the time. And I think about that a lot. And I already miss Allen and am shocked and saddened by his death as nearly the entire world of economics is. So I just wanted to share that a little bit, those two little bits of wisdom from him with the two of you and with all of our listeners. michelle goldberg Yeah I mean I know a lot of people who knew him and you know, yes everybody is shocked and heartbroken. And you know even me as a non-economist kind of knew how important and significant his work was. And both of those things that you said seem like actually more valuable than like 99 percent of self-help advice that I can think of. david leonhardt And 99 percent of economics. michelle goldberg Oh yeah, definitely. ross douthat I just took my family, my wife and three kids, we flew to Colorado to see some relatives who were moving back east and therefore won’t be in Colorado for much longer. And it was one of the worst travel experiences I’ve had because we were delayed by the bomb cyclone snowstorm that went off in Denver and then we were moved to a non-direct flight and our seats weren’t together. And when you have a three-year-old and your seats aren’t together and you’re running to catch a connection it’s a total nightmare. But the truth is that, you know, at the end of the day we’re back on the East Coast and I think the memories from the trip will either be happy ones or sort of bemused rueful entertaining ones from the disastrous travel. And in that sense it’s a sort of personal case study in David’s point, that doing things with friends or family, however challenging they may be, are essential to what makes not just life worth living but memory worth having. speaker That’s a good place to leave our show this week. As always we would like to hear your feedback. You can leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324, and we may play you on the show. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com. If you like what you hear please do leave us a rating or review an Apple Podcasts. This week’s show was produced, as it always is by Alex Loughlin for transmitter media and edited by Lisa Roberts our executive producer is Gretta Cohen. We had help from Tyson Evans. Phoebe let Ian Persaud Philbrick and Francis Yang. Our theme was composed by Allison Layton Brown thank you for listening. We’ll see you back here next week. Maybe the next segment should be like are we actually living in a simulation gone. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher The end of Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government has left some liberals disappointed. This week on “The Argument,” Michelle Goldberg thinks Attorney General William Barr’s letter to Congress was crafted to obscure Mueller’s findings and help the president. Ross Douthat accuses the media of overselling the magnitude of the scandal. And David Leonhardt wants to see the actual Mueller report — not just Barr’s summary of it — before drawing too many conclusions about what it means for Trump. Then, is it time to get rid of the Electoral College? The columnists debate a proposal to change America’s election process that recently resurfaced on the 2020 campaign trail. Finally, David passes along two pieces of advice on how to live a happier life from a renowned economist who left us too soon. [If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.] Background Reading: Ross on the political establishment’s Russia panic and the case for the Electoral College Michelle on what we still don’t know about Trump and Russia and minority rule David on William Barr’s letter to Congress, the unanswered questions it raises and Trump’s unfitness for office “It’s Official: Russiagate Is This Generation’s W.M.D.” (Matt Taibbi) “The Winners and Losers of the Mueller Revelations” (Tyler Cowen) I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett and Ian Prasad Philbrick. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.", "id": "5c9c8d6f49f0eacbf105f7a6", "date": "2019-03-28T09:00:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Who Is William Barr: He Will Decide What Happens With Mueller’s Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Now that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has provided Attorney General William P. Barr with a report about his investigation into Russia’s election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, what happens next is up to Mr. Barr. Here are five things to know about the man in possession of one of the most anticipated government documents in history. William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, replacing Dick Thornburgh, who retired for a Senate run. After leaving the Justice Department at the end of the Bush administration, Mr. Barr worked as a corporate lawyer, mostly with the telecommunications company that eventually became Verizon. Born in New York, Mr. Barr, now 68, is married to a retired librarian, and together they have three daughters — all attorneys. One of his daughters and her husband now work at the Justice Department. [What’s next? We break it down as well as the major moments in the case. And here’s the latest analysis on Trump and the Mueller report.] The Constitution, according to Mr. Barr’s interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Here’s a look at what this means and what comes next. michael barbaro So it’s here. michael schmidt Well, it’s in the hands of Bill Barr. It’s not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we can’t see into, into another pocket that we can’t see into. michael barbaro But it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something we’ve been waiting two years for. michael schmidt Correct. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of “The Daily.” Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. It’s Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today. michael schmidt So knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait. [music]  michael schmidt All right. 10:05 a.m. michael schmidt I left my house at 10:00 a.m. michael schmidt We expect the report to be finished today around noon. michael schmidt Walking down 17th Street, heading to the office. michael schmidt I got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear — nothing new. michael schmidt Not a ton of people on the streets. speaker Excuse me. michael schmidt Yes? speaker Do you know where the Jamaican Embassy is? michael schmidt I do not, I’m sorry. Do you know what the address is? michael schmidt Was stopped by a woman who couldn’t find the Jamaican embassy. michael schmidt O.K., so you’re going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail. speaker Oh, O.K., so I’m going the wrong way. michael schmidt Well, we’re all going the wrong way. michael schmidt Come up to Massachusetts Avenue. michael schmidt Cold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees. michael schmidt Just had a normal sort of walk into the office. michael schmidt [HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th — michael barbaro It doesn’t seem like you’re in a big hurry to get to the office. michael schmidt Well, all the work has been done. We know what’s coming. michael schmidt How are you? speaker Hey, Mike. michael schmidt What’s going on? michael schmidt So come into the building. michael schmidt Big day? No? Not a big day? All right. michael schmidt Get on the elevator. elevator voice announcer Floor seven. michael schmidt Walk into the office. And everyone wants to know — speaker 1 What do you got? What do you got? speaker 2 Chasing the report. michael schmidt When’s it going to happen? speaker This is the question I ask him every five — michael schmidt Days or — speaker Days or weeks. michael schmidt Days or weeks? michael schmidt The whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment. michael schmidt We got Nick here. We’re all ready. speaker Gang’s all here. michael schmidt There’s been a lot of time and planning that’s gone into this. There’s a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go. speaker Does that seem right? michael schmidt Yep. speaker O.K. michael schmidt Everyone’s sitting around waiting, and they want answers. dean baquet So what’s the latest? michael schmidt Dean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know? elisabeth bumiller You’re not so sure about it? michael schmidt I’m less sure about the timing, but — michael schmidt Elizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know? dean baquet Do you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get? michael schmidt My guess is not a lot because I don’t know what there is to get a heads-up on. michael schmidt And I said, I don’t know. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] You tell them that you don’t know. michael schmidt We don’t know! dean baquet O.K. elisabeth bumiller That’s what we got. michael schmidt So that’s all we got. elisabeth bumiller And we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button. michael schmidt All the work is done. elisabeth bumiller We’re just tourists hanging around. michael schmidt We’re sort of lemmings at this point. michael schmidt So it’s sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] michael schmidt And then it happens. archived recording The special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr. michael barbaro So what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. What’s our understanding? michael schmidt Our understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see what’s there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret. michael barbaro Is that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if he’s decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how he’s thinking about this? michael schmidt We just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsel’s office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsel’s office. michael barbaro So the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And that’s still going to take a while for him to figure out. michael schmidt Correct. And it’s a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, it’s a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president can’t be indicted. But if the president can’t be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? It’s not a snap decision you can make — like, O.K., Mueller’s done, this is what he found. Let’s put this in another box and send it to Congress. It’s far trickier. michael barbaro So how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report? michael schmidt Barr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done. michael barbaro And does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends? michael schmidt Yes. If Mueller says the president didn’t break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that there’s no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And that’s why we’re confident with his findings. michael barbaro And on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed? michael schmidt Well, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and here’s the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department can’t just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? They’re not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve. michael barbaro Is it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found? michael schmidt Maybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation. michael barbaro And the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president. michael schmidt Correct. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts? michael barbaro So when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front? michael schmidt Oh, now you want to know more. michael barbaro [LAUGHS] Yes, please. michael schmidt The greed of the news business. michael barbaro If you’ll indulge us. michael schmidt When will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I don’t know — sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the president’s life for 22 months. We don’t have clarity into everything Mueller’s found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I don’t think he has it. Maybe there’s not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, he’s got to have it right. He’s not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe it’s not what I thought it was. Or, oh, let’s give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, he’ll look like he’s waffling. michael barbaro And how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands? michael schmidt Barr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on. michael barbaro And Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version that’s sent to Congress, but from something else? I think we’re all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory. michael schmidt Yeah. michael barbaro Will it leak? michael schmidt I don’t know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about what’s really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why can’t we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, I’m going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected. michael barbaro So now we wait again. michael schmidt Hurry up and wait. michael barbaro Mike, thank you very much. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro In a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsel’s report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. “He alone is the executive branch,” Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. “As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution.” The document appeared to criticize Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice. “Thus, the full measure of law enforcement authority is placed in the president’s hands, and no limit is placed on the kinds of cases subject to his control and supervision,” Mr. Barr wrote to senior officials at the Justice Department, months before Mr. Trump named him to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the president’s defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day. “It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know — he said, ‘Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller?’ ” Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: “I didn’t hear — hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo). Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barr’s daughters’s weddings. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was “nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation.” He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the “matter warrants investigation,” and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it. The attorney general at the time, Mr. Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one. An earlier version of this article misstated William Barr’s age. He is 68, not 69.    ", "id": "5c955b6f49f0eacbf105e96d", "date": "2019-03-22T22:00:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr and the Mueller Report", "full_text": " letter A reader says William Barr should not be confirmed as attorney general if he refuses to commit to the full release of the investigative report. To the Editor: Re “Barr Makes Promise to Senate: He’ll Let Mueller Finish Inquiry” (front page, Jan. 16): Nothing less than the future well-being of the Republic lies in the balance as the Senate Judiciary Committee holds a hearing on the nomination of William Barr for attorney general.  It is evident that President Trump is acting in the interests of a foreign power and contrary to American interests. It is unthinkable to confirm a nominee for attorney general who equivocates about the release of the extensive investigative report by Robert Mueller that every member of Congress must be permitted to see in full.  If Mr. Barr cannot straight out commit to the release of Mr. Mueller’s full report to Congress, with some possible redactions of the names of nongovernment individuals for reasons of their safety, then Mr. Barr must be unanimously voted down in committee. This is not the time to play with fire.  Congress must have the information it needs to fully evaluate the role that Mr. Trump has played in what is the undeniable large-scale undermining of American security. Joe GrossmanBoulder, Colo.", "id": "5c3f7f733a125f5075c04c2f", "date": "2019-01-16T19:01:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Mueller Report Is Already a Hit, Sight Unseen", "full_text": " The legions of reporters and commentators following every move by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, do not know when he will finish investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. And it is unclear whether the report he is expected to file will ever become public. That hasn’t stopped two publishers from setting a date, March 26, for when people can buy their book versions of the eagerly anticipated document. One online outlet is already describing one of those books as a bona fide hit. Amazon’s listing for “The Mueller Report: The Final Report of the Special Counsel into Donald Trump, Russia and Collusion,” carries a “best seller” label based on pre-orders. On Barnes & Noble’s website, the publisher Skyhorse is promoting the $9.40 paperback — with Mr. Mueller and the Department of Justice as authors — as “required reading.” For $10.50, readers can also put in an advanced order for “The Mueller Report” from The Washington Post and the Simon & Schuster imprint Scribner, which bills the report as “the most anticipated investigative document of this century.” The question of when Mr. Mueller will file his report has been a topic of heated speculation for some time, with the fever rising in recent weeks. But his investigation is among the most tightly guarded government operations in memory. The “Game of Thrones” series finale probably has a better chance of being leaked than details from inside Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. Do the publishers know something everyone else doesn’t? It turns out, they do not. The publishing date for the Skyhorse book is “fluid,” Nick Magliato, a project editor for the company, said on Thursday. To clear up any confusion, the company plans to add a note specifying that the listed date is only a placeholder. Mr. Magliato said those working on the Skyhorse project initially thought the Mueller report would  come this week, giving them time to read, typeset and print a hard copy by March 26, with an e-book available in under 48 hours. What if Attorney General William P. Barr chooses not to make large parts of it public? Will buyers of the Skyhorse book, listed at 960 pages, receive something the size of “Gone With the Wind” with many pages of shruggie emoticons? Or will the book perhaps be similar to another title now available on Amazon, “A Comprehensive Review of the Lies in the Mueller Report: Exhaustive Analysis of Each and Every Specific Lie,” which features more than 100 blank pages. The listed page count of Skyhorse’s book “is a complete guess” and is subject to change, Mr. Magliato said. And if the contents of the report are kept entirely confidential? “Then we don’t publish it, unfortunately,” Mr. Magliato said. Advance orders would be canceled and payments refunded, he said. (That happened, he said, when the right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos lost his book deal with Simon & Schuster in 2017). Brian Belfiglio, Scribner’s publicity director, said his company had also settled on March 26 as a placeholder date for The Post’s book because retailers planning to sell it wanted something specific for their online listings. If the report is made public sooner, he said, the book will be published sooner. If the results are delayed, the sale date will be pushed back. The Post plans to supplement its version with reporting and commentary by the newspaper’s reporters. In a statement, Martin Baron, The Post’s executive editor, said the book would help “in providing context and perspective” during “a supremely important moment in American history.” Skyhorse, an independent publisher, has lined up Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard Law School professor whose criticism of Mr. Mueller’s investigation has won him  praise from President Trump and disdain from the Martha’s Vineyard elite, to write an introduction. The publisher, whose recent titles include books about WikiLeaks, the video game Fortnite, slow cooker recipes and a sloth, previously published Mr. Dershowitz’s book “The Case Against the Democratic House Impeaching Trump.” The Skyhorse website’s page has a section for reviews, which includes this blurb from the journalist Dan Rather: “There’s never been anything like this in American history.” The website does not say the quote is from a CNN segment in August, or that he was talking about President Trump’s political and legal problems. Despite being listed by Skyhorse as an author, Mr. Mueller would not receive any profits from a book bearing his name. Under federal law, work prepared by United States government is in the public domain. Books based on government reports are not unusual, and they sometimes gain commercial success. In 1998, The Post and the publisher Public Affairs released “The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth W. Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair,” a paperback version of the report prepared by Mr. Starr, the independent counsel. The book, along with two other editions, hit the top of The New York Times’s best-seller list when it was released, said Jaime Leifer, the publicity director for PublicAffairs. It has sold 160,000 copies to date. Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.", "id": "5c81b0d049f0eacbf105bf40", "date": "2019-03-07T23:59:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Mueller Report Will Be Released on Thursday. Here’s a Guide.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — After 23 months, 500 search warrants, 2,300 subpoenas and a string of indictments, the results of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be public on Thursday in a nearly 400-page report. The treatise is likely to add significantly to our understanding of Russia’s 2016 election interference and President Trump’s efforts to control federal inquiries into the matter. Attorney General William P. Barr said last month that the special counsel did not find that anyone associated with the Trump campaign worked with the Russian government to illegally influence the election. He also said there was insufficient evidence that Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. But Americans have been eagerly waiting to hear from Mr. Mueller’s investigators in their own words. Whether you have followed every step of the investigation or are tuning in after months of avoiding the headlines, here is a primer for the report’s release. Thursday morning, according to the Justice Department. The Justice Department is expected to publish it on the special counsel’s website. The New York Times will be offering live updates and analysis of the key findings, as will most likely every major news organization. Mr. Barr will also hold a news conference on Thursday morning to discuss the findings of the investigation, a Justice Department spokeswoman said on Wednesday. Mr. Barr has said that law enforcement officials are blacking out sensitive information and that the redactions will be color-coded so we will know the reason behind each one. They will fall into four categories: 1. Information that has been presented to a grand jury, which is subject to secrecy rules. This could conceivably cover a lot of material. 2. Material that intelligence officials fear could compromise sensitive sources and methods. This would include information from F.B.I. informants and foreign allies. 3. Information that could hamper other current investigations, including spinoffs of the Mueller inquiry. Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn and Manhattan are investigating the finances of the Trump inaugural committee and hush payments intended to cover up a sex scandal that threatened to upend Mr. Trump’s campaign. 4. Material that the Justice Department believes would unfairly infringe on the privacy and damage the reputations of “peripheral third parties.” Mr. Barr’s concerns are standard for prosecutors handling sensitive information. “It is not like there is anything crazy on his list,” said Mary McCord, who led the Justice Department’s national security division from 2016 to 2017. Prosecutors are prohibited under a federal rule of criminal procedure from disclosing grand jury material. They also try not to jeopardize intelligence sources and methods that contribute to the nation’s security. They want to keep current criminal inquiries as quiet as possible to maximize investigators’ leverage and to protect the reputations of people who may never be charged with a crime. And they try not to publicly identify witnesses or other peripheral figures for the same reason. “These are well-established principles,” Ms. McCord said. “But it remains to be seen how broadly or narrowly Barr applies them. And of course because we won’t know what has been redacted, we can’t make much of a judgment about whether he has been too broad or not.” The only yardstick for the general public — a highly imperfect one — will be the percentage of the report that is hidden from view. “If nine-tenths of the report is blacked out, I think we confidently can then say, ‘Yes, that is too broad,’” Ms. McCord said. Reporters are likely to make a beeline to the section of the report that addresses why Mr. Mueller decided not to draw a conclusion about whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, citing “difficult issues” of law and fact. Mr. Barr resolved those issues, deciding that there was insufficient evidence that the president had committed a crime. The report should either bolster that finding or call it into question. Mr. Barr’s brief summation of the report’s main findings, released last month, suggested that prosecutors were unable to show that the president acted with “corrupt intent” to block the federal inquiry. The report is expected to address whether and why that was so. It may render some judgment on the president’s refusal to be interviewed in person and whether that hampered prosecutors. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Reporters will also zero in on what about the president’s conduct raised the possibility he may have obstructed justice. Mr. Barr told Congress last month that “a number of actions by the president” prompted concerns, “most of which have been the subject of public reporting.” Mr. Barr’s comment implied there were troubling actions that have not yet been revealed. Does the report detail them? We don’t know. The House Judiciary Committee has authorized a subpoena for the entire text of the report and the underlying evidence. The committee has not set a date to issue the subpoena. And Mr. Barr has said he is willing to consider whether he can share more information with the House and Senate Judiciary committees than he decided to release publicly. But Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee are unlikely to be satisfied with a briefing or partial release; it appears likely that Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the committee, will issue the subpoena. Whether the committee would release whatever information it gets is unclear. The Justice Department would probably resist the public disclosure of information it has deemed confidential or classified, setting up a battle in court. Far from it. Even if much of the nation has moved on to “Game of Thrones,” this saga will continue. Mr. Barr pledged to investigate the origins of the F.B.I.’s counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election interference, which Mr. Mueller took over in May 2017. Congressional Democrats want to scrutinize the decisions by the special counsel and the attorney general, as well as Mr. Trump’s own behavior. Mr. Barr has voluntarily agreed to explain his decisions to the House and Senate Judiciary committees in early May. The House committee is also likely to call Mr. Mueller to testify. House Democrats are busy with their own investigations into matters related to the Mueller inquiry, including whether the president abused his powers or obstructed justice and whether foreign governments exerted improper influence over Mr. Trump and his family. In the Senate, the intelligence committee is still working on its own report that will address some of the same questions that the Mueller team investigated. Lawmakers may propose policy changes to protect American elections from future foreign interference. In short, the cottage industry of investigators that has sprung up in the past two years expects to be busy until at least the next presidential election.   ", "id": "5cb6eb7449f0eacbf1f84d6e", "date": "2019-04-17T09:00:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "James Comey: What I Want From the Mueller Report", "full_text": " I am rooting for a demonstration to the world that the United States justice system works. Mr. Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The country is eagerly awaiting the special counsel Robert Mueller’s report. Many people know what they want it to say — what they feel it simply must say — namely, that Donald Trump is a criminal who should be removed from office. Or that he is completely innocent of all wrongdoing. But not everyone knows what it “must” say. Even though I believe Mr. Trump is morally unfit to be president of the United States, I’m not rooting for Mr. Mueller to demonstrate that he is a criminal. I’m also not rooting for Mr. Mueller to “clear” the president. I’m not rooting for anything at all, except that the special counsel be permitted to finish his work, charge whatever cases warrant charging and report on his work. President Trump’s constant attacks on the special counsel, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department over the past two years raised the prospect that he would interfere to stop the special counsel’s work. It is deeply concerning that the president of the United States would try to protect himself by torching the institutions of justice. But he hasn’t used his authority to end Mr. Mueller’s work. (That would have been a crisis of a different order — shutting down the investigation, rather than just trying to undermine its credibility.) So we are in a position to wonder and hope about the report’s content. Wondering is fine. But hoping for a particular answer is not. The rule of law depends upon fair administration of justice, which is rooted in complete and unbiased investigation. We are best served when an investigation finds all relevant facts and illuminates the fullest possible view of the truth. I have no idea whether the special counsel will conclude that Mr. Trump knowingly conspired with the Russians in connection with the 2016 election or that he obstructed justice with the required corrupt intent. I also don’t care. I care only that the work be done, well and completely. If it is, justice will have prevailed and core American values will have been protected at a time when so much of our national leadership has abandoned its commitment to truth and the rule of law. I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism. That system may reach conclusions they like or it may not, but the apolitical administration of justice is the beating heart of this country. I hope we all get to see that. The interests of justice will also be best served by maximum transparency about the special counsel’s work. I don’t know all the considerations that will go into deciding precisely what to say about the completion of that work and when to say it. But because the Department of Justice is guided first and always by the public interest, it should provide details about finished investigations when the public needs to know them, as it traditionally has. I do have one hope that I should confess. I hope that Mr. Trump is not impeached and removed from office before the end of his term. I don’t mean that Congress shouldn’t move ahead with the process of impeachment governed by our Constitution, if Congress thinks the provable facts are there. I just hope it doesn’t. Because if Mr. Trump were removed from office by Congress, a significant portion of this country would see this as a coup, and it would drive those people farther from the common center of American life, more deeply fracturing our country. Critics of Mr. Trump should hope for something much harder to distort, or to nurse as a grievance, than an impeachment. We need a resounding election result in 2020, where Americans of all stripes, divided as they may be about important policy issues — immigration, guns, abortion, climate change, regulation, taxes — take a moment from their busy lives to show that they are united by something even more important: the belief that the president of the United States cannot be a chronic liar who repeatedly attacks the rule of law. Then we can get back to policy disagreements. I just hope we are up to it. James Comey is a former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the author of “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c93e79949f0eacbf105e581", "date": "2019-03-21T19:34:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect.", "full_text": " A concise report will probably act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House — and to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors.  Mr. Katyal was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama. The special counsel Robert Mueller will apparently soon turn in a report to the new attorney general, William Barr. Sure, there is still a lot of activity, including subpoenas, flying around, but that shouldn’t stop Mr. Mueller.  The report is unlikely to be a dictionary-thick tome, which will disappoint some observers. But such brevity is not necessarily good news for the president. In fact, quite the opposite. For months, the president’s lawyers have tried to discredit Mr. Mueller and this report, but their efforts may have backfired. A concise Mueller report might act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House of Representatives — and it might also lead to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors. A short Mueller report would mark the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end. The report is unlikely to be lengthy by design: The special counsel regulations, which I had the privilege of drafting in 1999, envision a report that is concise, “a summary” of what he found. And Mr. Mueller’s mandate is limited: to look into criminal activity and counterintelligence matters surrounding Russia and the 2016 election, as well as any obstruction of justice relating to those investigations. The regulations require the attorney general to give Congress a report, too. The regulations speak of the need for public confidence in the administration of justice and even have a provision for public release of the attorney general’s report. In a world where Mr. Mueller was the only investigator, the pressure for a comprehensive report to the public would be overwhelming. This is where the “witch hunt” attacks on Mr. Mueller may have backfired. For 19 months, Mr. Trump and his team have had one target to shoot at, and that target has had limited jurisdiction. But now the investigation resembles the architecture of the internet, with many different nodes, and some of those nodes possess potentially unlimited jurisdiction. Their powers and scope go well beyond Mr. Mueller’s circumscribed mandate; they go to Mr. Trump’s judgment and whether he lied to the American people. They also include law enforcement investigations having nothing to do with Russia, such as whether the president directed the commission of serious campaign finance crimes, as federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have already stated in filings. These are all critical matters, each with serious factual predicates already uncovered by prosecutors.  Had Mr. Trump and his coterie done nothing wrong, they would have had little to fear from the special counsel, and a report from Mr. Mueller that cleared him would be the gold seal of approval. But Mr. Trump’s behavior, including his dangling of pardons to witnesses in the investigation, makes total exoneration unlikely, even though it is enormously difficult to prosecute crimes with international dimensions and assertions of privilege. The investigation has been further clouded by the fact that people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle lied repeatedly when it came to Russia (that long list includes Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort and Roger Stone). Sure, it is at least possible to envision the special counsel resolving each strand of the investigation and making such information public in detail. But it is also quite possible — and more likely — to think that the president’s bashing of Mr. Mueller may induce him to issue a more limited, by-the-book report, which will spawn further investigation. And the bashing may have encouraged Mr. Mueller to turn matters over to other investigators who have not been subject to the same sorts of public attack. The House of Representatives has already begun its investigation. To understand the dangers Mr. Trump may face in the aftermath of a limited Mueller report, consider the request Congress made in 1974 to the special prosecutor Leon Jaworski as it opened an impeachment inquiry. Mr. Jaworski is analogous to Mr. Mueller — indeed, his appointment was a model for the special counsel regulations. In March 1974, Peter Rodino, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote to Mr. Jaworski, requesting all information he had uncovered in his investigation. Mr. Rodino understood that Mr. Jaworski’s mandate was far more limited than the House’s, and his letter stated that “it would be unthinkable if this material were kept from the House of Representatives in the course of the discharge of its most awesome constitutional responsibility.” Of course, there is no open impeachment inquiry now. But that could quickly change if Mr. Mueller writes a report that is anything less than a full clearing of the president: Congress would be under a constitutional obligation to investigate the facts for itself. Congress cannot be satisfied that impeachable offenses were not committed when Mr. Mueller’s investigative mandate did not cover many impeachable offenses, and when his report does not provide detailed information and answers to the few offenses that are within his mandate. This is where Mr. Mueller’s “by the book” behavior may be initially unsatisfying to Mr. Trump’s critics but ultimately more threatening to the president in the long run. The overlapping investigations by different entities, housed in different branches of government, spanning geography and even different governments (such as the New York attorney general’s investigation into the Trump Foundation), make it difficult for anyone, even Attorney General Barr, to end the inquiries.  This news may be disappointing, for various reasons, to the president’s critics and supporters alike. But the ultimate result is a good one. It means the truth is likely to come out — maybe not on the timetable anyone wants, but it will. So whenever Mr. Mueller turns in his report, do not assume that things are over. Like “The king is dead, long live the King,” the investigations here serve a purpose that transcends any one individual or law enforcement entity. This is the architecture of our Constitution, which is designed to ferret out high-level wrongdoing through a variety of channels for the American public to see. Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6ec4603a125f5075c0ad0d", "date": "2019-02-21T15:30:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What You Won't See in the Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas \"very quickly\" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are \"free to go to court\" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure \"preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.\" But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for \"all materials, regardless of form or classification.\" In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. \"All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here,\" Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report \"that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.\" Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. \"No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders,\" Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. \"If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person,\" Barr said. \"That's not the way the Department of Justice does business.\"", "id": "5cb7790449f0eacbf1f850ac", "date": "2019-04-17T19:04:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What You Won't See in the Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The special counsel's Trump-Russia report will be out on Thursday for all to see. But not all of it. The Democrats' demands for a full, unredacted version of Robert Mueller's report are likely to prompt a political and legal battle that could last for months, if not much longer. The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, New York Rep. Jerrold Nadler, has said he is prepared to issue subpoenas \"very quickly\" for the full report on Russia and Donald Trump's presidential campaign if it is released with blacked-out sections. And that would set the legal fight in motion. Attorney General William Barr has said he is redacting four types of information from the report, which the Justice Department says will be released Thursday. Congressional Democrats cite precedent from previous investigations in saying they want to see it all. But some Republicans defending Barr are also citing precedent, saying it is appropriate to keep at least some of the information from Congress and the public. A look at what types of material Barr is redacting, and why Democrats say it should be released: ___ GRAND JURY INFORMATION Barr has staked out his position on releasing secret grand jury information, saying last week that he would not go to court to request its release. He said Democrats are \"free to go to court\" themselves, and Nadler has said he is ready to do so. Grand jury information, including witness interviews, is normally off limits but can be obtained in court. Some records were eventually released in the Whitewater investigation into former President Bill Clinton and an investigation into President Richard Nixon before he resigned. Both of those cases were under somewhat different circumstances, including that the House Judiciary Committee had initiated impeachment proceedings. Federal court rules state that a court may order disclosure \"preliminary to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.\" But Democrats have said they are not interested in impeachment, for now, and are likely to argue in court that they don't need to be in an official impeachment proceeding to receive the materials. ___ CLASSIFIED INFORMATION Congress frequently receives classified documents and briefings, and Democrats say there is no reason the Mueller report should be any different. Many Republicans agree, including the top Republican on the intelligence committee, California Rep. Devin Nunes, who wrote a rare joint letter in March with House intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff asking for \"all materials, regardless of form or classification.\" In the letter, which was obtained by The Associated Press, Schiff and Nunes also asked for a private briefing from Mueller and his team. Democrat Schiff has argued that some of that information should be released to the public, as well, citing Mueller indictments that have already revealed granular detail about the Russian effort to influence the 2016 election. \"All of that information at one point was classified, but the decision must have been made the public interest outweighs that. And I think a similar analysis should be undertaken here,\" Schiff said on CNN this month. ___ ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS Barr said he will redact information related to investigations connected to the Mueller probe that are still underway. Those include cases handed off or referred to federal prosecutors in Washington, New York and Virginia. Democrats have noted that the Justice Department has released such information before, including some related to Mueller's own investigation while it was in progress. Republicans who were in the House majority last year, obtained documents related to the beginnings of the Russia investigation, arguing that officials were biased against then-candidate Trump. Republicans argued at the time that it was necessary to obtain that information to maintain the integrity of the investigation. ___ DEROGATORY INFORMATION The Justice Department regularly redacts information about people who were interviewed or scrutinized in investigations but not charged. Barr has said he will black out information from the report \"that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.\" Asked by Sen. Jeanne Shaheen, D-N.H., at a hearing last week if that meant he would redact information to protect the interests of Trump, Barr said it did not. \"No, I'm talking about people in private life, not public officeholders,\" Barr said. That means that in addition to Trump, members of his family who work at the White House, such as his daughter Ivanka, could potentially be named if they were somehow entangled in Mueller's investigation. But any information regarding his sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr., who run his businesses, could be more likely to be redacted. The Justice Department did release information about the investigation into Hillary Clinton's email practices more than two years ago, even though Clinton wasn't charged. But that was after then-FBI Director James Comey made the much-questioned decision to publicly discuss that investigation. Barr signaled in his confirmation hearing in January that he would do things differently. \"If you're not going to indict someone, then you don't stand up there and unload negative information about the person,\" Barr said. \"That's not the way the Department of Justice does business\"", "id": "5cb62fec49f0eacbf1f84a78", "date": "2019-04-16T19:40:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "As Mueller Report Lands, Prosecutorial Focus Moves to New York", "full_text": " Even as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, submitted his confidential report to the Justice Department on Friday, federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other investigations that largely grew out of his work, all but ensuring that a legal threat will continue to loom over the Trump presidency. Most of the investigations focus on President Trump or his family business or a cadre of his advisers and associates, according to court records and interviews with people briefed on the investigations. They are being conducted by officials from Los Angeles to Brooklyn, with about half of them being run by the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan. Unlike Mr. Mueller, whose mandate was largely focused on any links between the Trump campaign and the Russian government’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, the federal prosecutors in Manhattan take an expansive view of their jurisdiction. That authority has enabled them, along with F.B.I. agents, to scrutinize a broader orbit around the president, including his family business. Mr. Trump told The New York Times in 2017 that any examination of his family’s finances, beyond any relationship to Russia, would cross a red line, and last year he privately asked the former acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, if someone he viewed as loyal could be put in charge of the investigations at the Manhattan office, The Times reported last month. [Read more: Before Mueller’s report, the president waged a two-year war against the Trump-Russia investigations.] Some of those federal investigations in the Manhattan office, known as the Southern District of New York, grew out of its case against Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and fixer. The inquiry into Mr. Cohen was turned over to the Manhattan federal prosecutors early last year after Mr. Mueller’s office spent months investigating him, court records unsealed this week show. Situated in a drab, nine-story Brutalist-style building nestled among the federal courthouse, Police Headquarters and the Church of St. Andrew, the office has a history of high-profile prosecutions and personnel. From the espionage trial of the Rosenbergs in the early 1950s to the case of an Egyptian sheikh who plotted to bomb city landmarks four decades later, the office’s prosecutions have started the careers of judges, F.B.I. directors and even a New York City mayor. Since Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in August to helping arrange hush money payments to women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump, the prosecutors have focused on what role the Trump Organization and its executives, including its longtime chief financial officer, may have played in the scheme, according to people briefed on the matter. Mr. Cohen, who is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence in May, has assisted the prosecutors with that inquiry as well as a separate investigation into the president’s inaugural committee, the people said. The prosecutors have also examined information brought by Mr. Cohen that he hopes will reduce his sentence, the people said, including whether Mr. Trump’s lawyers considered offering him a presidential pardon to keep him quiet and whether the Trump Organization possibly inflated insurance claims several years ago. At this point, it is unclear whether anyone will be charged with a crime. Some of the investigations involve allegations that may be too old to be prosecuted. Yet taken together, the investigations show that the prosecutorial center of gravity has shifted from Mr. Mueller’s office in Washington to New York. “The important thing to remember is that almost everything Donald Trump did was in the Southern District of New York,” said John S. Martin Jr., a retired federal judge who was the United States attorney in the Southern District during the Carter and Reagan administrations. “He ran his business in the Southern District. He ran his campaign from the Southern District,” Judge Martin said. “He came home to New York every night.” In an interview that aired on Friday morning, Mr. Trump told Maria Bartiromo of Fox Business Network that his lawyers were perplexed by reports that he faces multiple investigations. “I said to my lawyers, ‘Are we being looked at here?’” Mr. Trump said, adding that his lawyers “don’t even know what people are talking about.” James M. Margolin, a spokesman for the Southern District, declined to comment, as did the Trump Organization. The precise number of federal investigations around the country that have grown out of the special counsel’s work remains unknown because such inquiries are conducted in secret. But the special counsel’s office farmed out strands of its inquiry to at least three other United States attorneys’ offices, including in Brooklyn, the District of Columbia and the Eastern District of Virginia. People briefed on the federal investigations said the prosecutors in Brooklyn have raised questions about donations to the Trump inaugural committee, which was chaired by Thomas J. Barrack, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump. They have been examining Mr. Barrack’s ties to the Middle East, among other matters, according to the people briefed on the work. [Read more: Unraveling the Trump-Russia story so far.] Federal prosecutors in the District of Columbia will handle the prosecution of the Trump political adviser Roger J. Stone Jr., who was charged as part of Mr. Mueller’s investigation. And the Justice Department continues to investigate the business and political dealings of Elliott Broidy, a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s campaign and inauguration, who tried to use his access to the Trump team to boost his businesses. Federal investigators in Los Angeles have also taken part in the inquiry and have raised questions about the inauguration, according to people briefed on the matter. Separately, state authorities in New York are pursuing several investigations focused on the president, his associates and his business. Those matters include a mortgage fraud case against Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul J. Manafort, as well as civil inquiries into the Trump Organization’s insurance practices, real estate deals, and whether the family’s charitable foundation violated tax laws. As for the Southern District, it is known to move aggressively — more so than some other offices — to stake a claim to new investigations based on tips from cooperating witnesses and other sources. In this instance, it appears to be leading some of the most sensitive spinoffs — ones with the potential to directly affect Mr. Trump’s business, his inaugural committee and possibly himself. In the hush money investigation, the Southern District prosecutors have already implicated the president, claiming in a court filing that Mr. Cohen “acted in coordination with and at the direction of” Mr. Trump. While the prevailing view at the Justice Department is that a sitting president cannot be indicted, the prosecutors in Manhattan could consider charging him after he leaves office, particularly if he does not win re-election and is a private citizen before the legal deadline to file charges expires. The investigation into the Trump inaugural committee partly grew out of a recording that F.B.I. agents seized when they raided Mr. Cohen’s home and office. On the recording, Mr. Cohen is heard discussing potential irregularities with one of the main contractors for the inauguration. The Southern District is investigating, among other things, whether the committee made false filings with the Federal Election Commission and received illegal donations from foreign nationals, a subpoena from the investigation shows. In addition, the Southern District took on two investigations stemming from the cases against Mr. Manafort, who was prosecuted by Mr. Mueller’s office and was recently sentenced to more than seven years in prison for a litany of crimes. In one of the investigations, the prosecutors are weighing charges against the officer of a bank that Mr. Manafort has acknowledged defrauding, according to people briefed on the matter. In the other, Mr. Mueller’s team referred investigations involving three firms that worked with Mr. Manafort — the lobbying firms Mercury Public Affairs and Podesta Group, and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom — to the Southern District for potential prosecution under the Foreign Agents Registration Act. Since then, Skadden reached a settlement with the Justice Department. But prosecutors in Washington are weighing charges against Skadden’s lead lawyer on the firm’s work in consultation with Mr. Manafort in 2012 on behalf of the Ukrainian government, while the Southern District has retained control of the investigations of Mercury and the Podesta Group, according to people familiar with the matter. The Southern District’s reputation for nonpartisanship — and history of autonomy from the Justice Department in Washington, giving it the nickname “Sovereign District” — may make it less vulnerable to attacks from the president and his allies. The president’s lead lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, led the office from 1983 to 1989 and later became New York’s mayor. The Southern District’s role in Trump-related cases comes at a time of transition for the office, which is led by Geoffrey S. Berman, who was appointed in January 2018 by the Trump administration. Mr. Berman notified Justice Department officials early last year of a possible appearance of a conflict of interest in the Cohen investigation, and officials concluded that he should be recused, for reasons that have not been disclosed. In his stead, Mr. Berman’s handpicked deputy, Robert S. Khuzami, led the Cohen investigation. But on Friday, Mr. Berman announced that Mr. Khuzami will step down from his post next month to return home to Washington. Mr. Berman named his senior counsel, Audrey Strauss, as Mr. Khuzami’s successor. Ms. Strauss, who had already been deeply involved in the Cohen investigation, will assume responsibility for any remaining aspects of the Cohen inquiry that were subject to Mr. Berman’s recusal. Mr. Khuzami’s departure will not directly affect most of the other Trump-related investigations, which Mr. Berman has supervised. Mr. Berman’s name, for example, appeared on a February grand jury subpoena served on the president’s inaugural committee. For the most part, the investigations surrounding the president and his associates have been assigned to career prosecutors in the office’s public corruption unit, which has a track record of convicting politicians on both sides of the aisle. Those prosecutors work on the eighth floor of the building, down the hall from Mr. Berman’s office. The unit is led by two office veterans, Russell Capone and Edward B. Diskant, and although line prosecutors shift in and out — one assistant who worked on the Cohen inquiry, Rachel Maimin, recently went into private practice, and another, Andrea M. Griswold, returned to work full time on securities cases — the unit has a deep bench. Two prosecutors who worked on the Cohen case, Thomas McKay and Nicolas Roos, remain in the unit. The investigations are overseen by the office’s criminal division, which recently got a new chief, Laura G. Birger; she succeeded Lisa Zornberg, who left the office to return to private practice. Robert B. Fiske Jr., a former United States attorney in Manhattan who later served as the first independent counsel investigating the Whitewater matter during the Clinton administration, said the Southern District prosecutors would maintain the kind of professionalism associated with Mr. Mueller’s team. “If the question is, should the public have confidence that there will be the same kind of integrity and independence in the Southern District of New York that there has been in the Mueller investigation, the answer is absolutely,” Mr. Fiske said. Kenneth P. Vogel and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. Follow Ben Protess, William Rashbaum, Benjamin Weiser and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @BenProtess @WRashbaum @BenWeiserNYT and @maggieNYT   ", "id": "5c961a6449f0eacbf105ea69", "date": "2019-03-23T11:35:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Will There Be Smoking Guns in the Mueller Report?", "full_text": " I’ve followed the investigation closely. Here’s what I’ll be looking for.  Ms. Jurecic is the managing editor of Lawfare.  Any week now, any day now — so the news reports go — the special counsel’s office will file the Mueller report. It will round out a trilogy. In 1974, to inform its impeachment proceedings, Congress received what became known as the “road map,” a terse document from the office of the Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski detailing evidence of wrongdoing by President Richard Nixon.  In 1998, another investigator submitted a report on a president’s potentially impeachable offenses to Congress: a narrative from the independent counsel Kenneth Starr of Bill Clinton’s misconduct. Following Justice Department regulations, the special counsel Robert Mueller will submit a “confidential report” to the attorney general, Bill Barr. Mr. Barr will decide how much of it to share with Congress and with the world at large. Assuming that some significant portion of the report becomes public, and that it provides an additional factual record beyond what we already know, the question will quickly become how to identify any smoking guns. I’ve spent the last year and a half following the investigation. Here’s a partial list of what I’ll be looking for: In November 2015, according to Mr. Mueller, Michael Cohen, then Mr. Trump’s lawyer, was put in touch with a Russian man who promised Mr. Cohen “political synergy” and “repeatedly proposed a meeting” between Mr. Trump and the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to help with efforts to construct a Trump Tower Moscow. In January 2016, the office of a “high-level Russian official” — most likely, according to reports, of Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitri Peskov — reached out to Mr. Cohen about the project, and efforts on it continued at least into the summer of 2016. How closely were Mr. Trump and his children involved in the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations, and over what period? How much did they know of or encourage Mr. Cohen’s contacts with the Russian government — including tentative plans for a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin? How did the Trump family and campaign understand the connection between the “Moscow project” and Mr. Trump’s political ambitions? Mr. Mueller estimated in a court filing that Trump Tower Moscow could have generated “hundreds of millions of dollars from Russian sources in licensing fees and other revenues” — an unusually large profit for the Trump Organization. Why was the number so atypically high?  “Dirt” on Clinton In spring 2016, according to the special counsel, a professor linked to the Russian government told the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos that Russia had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton in the form of “thousands of emails.” Around this time, the special counsel’s indictment of Russian military intelligence officials shows that the Russian government had hacked into networks and accounts belonging to the Democratic Party and the Clinton campaign, and would soon begin coordinating with WikiLeaks to disseminate the stolen information. In June, Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-linked lawyer at Trump Tower in New York in what seems to have been a failed effort to get similar “dirt.” Who else in the campaign did Mr. Papadopoulos tell about his scoop, and how high did that knowledge go? Did Donald Trump Jr. inform his father of his plans before the meeting?  Roger Stone and WikiLeaks Mr. Mueller’s indictment of the Trump adviser Roger Stone alleges that Mr. Stone worked throughout the summer of 2016 to get in touch with WikiLeaks and became aware of the organization’s plans to disclose hacked information. Mr. Cohen claimed in his testimony to Congress that he was in the room when Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump that WikiLeaks was planning a “massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.” Was Mr. Stone coordinating with the campaign in his efforts to get information from WikiLeaks? How much did Mr. Trump know about what Mr. Stone had found out? And who in the campaign, if anyone, might have been aware of separate efforts by the Republican operative Peter Smith to obtain additional Clinton emails from sources Mr. Smith believed were Russian hackers? Flynn’s Promises to Moscow  The national security adviser Michael Flynn was fired just 24 days into his tenure over fallout from his transition-period contacts with the Russian ambassador at the time, Sergey Kislyak — a matter about which he later pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators. When he promised Mr. Kislyak that Mr. Trump would lift sanctions on Russia imposed by the departing Obama administration, was Mr. Flynn freelancing or was he acting on the instructions of someone higher? Russian Influence Operations  Almost every case that Mr. Mueller has filed has illuminated a different facet of what appears to be a systematic, long-running effort by the government of Russia to reach out to Mr. Trump’s world. It’s clear that the Kremlin was attempting to gain access and influence. Was it also out-and-out working to recruit agents within the Trump Organization and campaign? On our side of the Atlantic, to what extent was that outreach welcomed and reciprocated by the Trump team, and to what extent was Mr. Trump a passive beneficiary? Did the Trump Organization and campaign understand and respond to those instances as manifestations of a systematic effort by the Russian government or as unrelated connections with unconnected Russians? Obstruction of Justice Mr. Mueller has also reportedly conducted an investigation into potential obstruction of justice by the president: possible interference with the special counsel’s efforts, and with the F.B.I.’s before that.  Mr. Barr, among others, has argued that action authorized by the Constitution — like dismissing the F.B.I. director — by definition cannot constitute obstruction. Will the report sidestep these tricky legal questions by showing efforts by Mr. Trump to derail the inquiry that fall plainly outside the scope of presidential authority? To what extent does the obstruction investigation overlap with the collusion investigation — meaning that the special counsel and the F.B.I. understood the president’s apparent efforts at obstruction as part of the troubling pattern of coordination with the Russian government that incited the investigation in the first place? What proportion of the Mueller report becomes public will hinge on many factors: how much classified information and grand jury material shielded from public disclosure it has; how much of it is arguably protected by executive privilege; to what extent it details criminal conduct, and to what extent Mr. Barr may reasonably argue that the Justice Department has an interest in protecting the privacy of those who are innocent. The Watergate “road map” first became available to the public in 2018, when a judge ordered it unsealed almost 45 years after it was handed over to Congress. The Starr Report, in contrast, was released within two days of its transmission to the legislature. With any luck, the time frame for release of the Mueller report will be closer to the latter than to the former. Quinta Jurecic (@qjurecic) is the managing editor of Lawfare.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c84149949f0eacbf105c3b9", "date": "2019-03-09T19:30:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Justice Department Set to Release Redacted Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. Attorney General William Barr will hold a 9:30 a.m. news conference accompanied by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversaw the investigation after Mueller's appointment in May 2017. That announcement prompted immediate criticism from congressional Democrats, who predicted Barr would try to color the report's findings early in the day. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., tweeted that Barr will \"spin a report no one has read.\" Schiff said his advice is to \"wait to read Mueller's words for yourself.\" It's unclear if Barr will speak before or after the report is released. The Justice Department also plans to provide a \"limited number\" of members of Congress and their staff access to a copy of the Mueller report with fewer redactions than the public copy, according to a court filing Wednesday. The nearly 400-page report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately. The report is not expected to place the president in legal jeopardy, as Barr made his own decision that Trump shouldn't be prosecuted for obstruction. But it is likely to contain unflattering details about the president's efforts to control the Russia investigation that will cloud his ability to credibly claim total exoneration. And it may paint the Trump campaign as eager to exploit Russian aid and emails stolen from Democrats and Hillary Clinton's campaign even if no Americans crossed the line into criminal activity. The report's release will be a test of Barr's credibility as the public and Congress judge whether he is using his post to shield the president who appointed him. Trump announced Barr's press conference during a radio interview Wednesday before the Justice Department did. Trump also said he may take questions about the report after its release. Barr will also face scrutiny over how much of the report he blacks out and whether Mueller's document lines up with a letter the attorney general released last month. The letter said Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government but he found evidence on \"both sides\" of the question of whether the president obstructed justice. Barr has said he is withholding grand jury and classified information as well as portions relating to ongoing investigation and the privacy or reputation of uncharged \"peripheral\" people. But how liberally he interprets those categories is yet to be seen. Democrats have vowed to fight in court for the disclosure of the additional information from the report. They are expected to seize on any negative portrait of the president to demand the release of the full report and will be looking for any signs that Barr is trying to shield Trump and his family. Mueller is known to have investigated multiple efforts by the president over the last two years to influence the Russia probe or shape public perception of it. In addition to Comey's firing, Mueller scrutinized the president's request of Comey to end an investigation into Trump's first national security adviser; his relentless badgering of former Attorney General Jeff Sessions over his recusal from the Russia investigation; and his role in drafting an incomplete explanation about a meeting his oldest son took at Trump Tower with a Kremlin-connected lawyer. Justice Department legal opinions say that a sitting president cannot be indicted, but Barr said he did not take that into account when he decided the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction. That conclusion was perhaps not surprising given Barr's own unsolicited memo to the Justice Department from last June in which he said a president could not obstruct justice by taking actions — like the firing of an FBI director — that he is legally empowered to take. Overall, Mueller brought charges against 34 people — including six Trump aides and advisers — and revealed a sophisticated, wide-ranging Russian effort to influence the 2016 presidential election. Twenty-five of those charged were Russians accused either in the hacking of Democratic email accounts or of a hidden but powerful social media effort to spread disinformation online. Five former Trump aides or advisers pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate in Mueller's investigation, including former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, former national security adviser Michael Flynn and his former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen. Stone is awaiting trial on charges including false statements and obstruction. ___ Associated Press writer Mary Clare Jalonick contributed to this report.", "id": "5cb7762749f0eacbf1f8509b", "date": "2019-04-17T18:51:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Emboldened by His Attorney General, Trump Confronts Mueller Report Head-On", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The case was closed for President Trump on March 24, the day Attorney General William P. Barr delivered to Congress his four-page summary of the special counsel’s 300-plus page report. “No Collusion, No Obstruction, Complete and Total EXONERATION,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that day. And in the weeks that followed, the president’s message of vindication and revenge on his political antagonists has only intensified, as he has expressed no interest in reading the full report and leveled charges of treason against Democratic lawmakers. Mr. Barr’s letter effectively emboldened Mr. Trump, aides said, even as they prepare for new details to emerge from a redacted version of the report — expected this week — that could renew questions about the president’s fitness for office, and even as some of them cringe at Mr. Trump’s choice of the word “exonerate.” (Privately, they admit, they would prefer he use the word “vindicate.”) But Mr. Trump’s mood has been lighter since the report was filed, people close to him said, even though neither he nor his White House lawyers have seen the full document, or at this point plan to do so before it is released to Congress and to the public. People close to Mr. Trump said they have noticed an increase in his confidence after he spent months feeling weighed down by a loss of control. “When they began to go after people he knew personally, who had worked for him for years, I think it gnawed at him, and I think he felt helpless,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and a confidant of Mr. Trump’s. But since Mr. Barr issued his letter, the president has felt liberated and has been testing his bounds. He has poked fun at Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president considering a presidential run, for his handsy approach to politics, despite his own troubled history with women. He has floated the idea of a pardon for Kevin McAleenan, now his acting homeland security secretary, if he encountered any legal problems in shutting the southwestern border. And he has heightened his attacks on the press beyond his normal refrain of “fake news,” falsely claiming that journalists are “knowingly” bending the truth. Now, as Mr. Barr prepares to submit a redacted version of the report, Mr. Trump’s plan of attack, aides said, is to act as if the report itself is extraneous to Mr. Barr’s brief letter. “The bottom line: The result is no collusion, no obstruction, and that’s the way it is,” the president told reporters on Thursday. He said that Democrats “know it’s all a big scam, a big hoax” and that he believed what they were doing was “actually treason.” Days earlier, en route to Texas, Mr. Trump told reporters: “I don’t care about the Mueller report. I’ve been totally exonerated.” Mr. Trump is purposefully escalating his language, people who know him said, expressly to enliven his base of supporters and to enrage his political rivals and the news media. He has revived an idea that his administration rejected — sending immigrant detainees to so-called sanctuary cities — in part, people close to him said, to distract from the report. “The president clearly feels vindicated now that the Mueller report is completed,” said Eric Bolling, a former Fox News host, who recently taped a radio interview with Mr. Trump. “He will continue to remind the American people he was correct about there being no evidence of collusion with Russia.” Other outside surrogates have been echoing Mr. Trump’s line — that the narrative has already been established and it is too late for new facts to change that — even though members of the special counsel’s team have expressed concern that Mr. Barr’s letter did not accurately portray the contents of the report. “The facts are that there was no collusion between the 2016 Trump campaign and Russia, no obstruction of justice and President Trump has been fully vindicated,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former White House aide who now serves as the chief political commentator for Sinclair Broadcast Group. “No amount of spin by the opponents is going to change that.” But critics said the strategy is classic Trump — effective with a narrow audience, but ultimately self-limiting. “He will probably have succeeded in setting the narrative for his core supporters and hardening their attitudes, but at the expense of anyone else believing him when the report comes out and inevitably undermines what he’s been claiming,” said Matthew Miller, a Justice Department spokesman under former President Barack Obama. “The same things that solidify his base just prevent him from expanding beyond it at all.” Neal K. Katyal, who served as acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said that such an approach could backfire. “Whatever Trump may have thought when he claimed total exoneration two weeks ago, subsequent events strongly suggest that claim will fall flat on its face,” he said. “And because Trump claimed total exoneration from the report, he created massive public pressure for the full report to be released.” Inside the White House, there is only a bare-bones plan in place for how to handle the release of the redacted report, people familiar with the matter said. Emmet T. Flood, the White House counsel, is expected to spend the day reading the report and to brief the president on its findings. The White House has not asked to read the report in advance, and aides are planning to speed read. They intend to all but skip the sections related to potential criminal conspiracy, and instead zoom in on two outstanding questions that Mr. Trump himself wants to ignore: why Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was not able to conclude whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, and what the attorney general meant when he wrote in his letter that “much” of the president’s conduct was public — meaning some of it was not. But many acknowledge they are still operating largely in the dark, with guesswork about what the report will reveal about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, would not disclose how the legal team plans to address the report, but he said it would be similar to how the White House responded after Mr. Barr sent his summary to Congress. “Our goal is to respond as quick as we can; given the length of the report, it may take some time to respond,” Mr. Sekulow said. “But we have a plan in place to respond in a professional manner as quickly and appropriately as possible.” Mr. Trump’s top aides and some relatives have also been eager for their own vindication. After months of being mocked by reporters for his seemingly off-script moments, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the president’s lawyers, recently texted an article in The Federalist titled “Rudy Giuliani Knew Exactly What He Was Doing” to a wide list of journalists. Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, who was believed to have been a focus of investigators, made a rare appearance on Fox News last week and insisted he never had any real concern. “I was never worried, because I never thought the notion that we did that,” Mr. Kushner said, referring to whether the campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 presidential election. “We ran a great campaign. The president had a great message, and that’s why we won.” Mr. Kushner, who faced difficulties getting a security clearance and was ultimately granted one on the president’s orders, added, “Over the last few years that I’ve been here, I’ve been accused of all different types of things, and all of those things have turned out to be false.” The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” reinforced the idea that Mr. Trump has been emboldened by Mr. Barr’s summary, pushing back when the show’s host, Chris Wallace, asked, “How are you going to deal with some evidence that’s going to come out in this report that clearly is going to be damaging to the president?” “I don’t think it is going to be damaging,” Ms. Sanders said. “We consider this to be case closed.” Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Chris Cameron contributed reporting from Washington. video ", "id": "5cb38f5d49f0eacbf1f83fab", "date": "2019-04-14T19:50:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Latest: Lawmakers Push Barr on Mueller Report Release", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Latest on Attorney General William Barr's testimony to Congress (all times local): 9:50 a.m. The chairman of a House appropriations subcommittee says it would be a serious blow to democracy if special counsel Robert Mueller's full report on the Russia investigation is not fully made public. Attorney General William Barr is testifying before the subcommittee on Tuesday. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., said he has concerns about the process Barr used to draft a four-page letter of Mueller's \"principal conclusions\" last month. Mueller concluded his investigation in late March and turned over a nearly 400-page report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general then sent the four-page document to Congress. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be made public in mid-April. Serrano said Americans have been \"left with many unanswered questions\" about Mueller's investigation. __ 12:40 a.m. Attorney General William Barr is facing congressional lawmakers for the first time since receiving the special counsel's report on the Russia investigation. Barr appears Tuesday before a House appropriations subcommittee, where he's expected to face questions about the forthcoming release of special counsel Robert Mueller's report. The Justice Department is preparing to release within days a redacted version of Mueller's report into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Barr said in a four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. The attorney general has also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction.", "id": "5caf82bf49f0eacbf1f82edc", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democrats, Awaiting Mueller Report Findings, Vow to Press On With Their Inquiries", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Top House Democrats, anxiously awaiting the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, insisted on Sunday that their own investigations must go on regardless of whether the Justice Department accuses President Trump of wrongdoing. Expecting the “principal conclusions” of Mr. Mueller’s 22-month investigation to be made public by Attorney General William P. Barr as soon as Sunday afternoon but lacking any information on its findings, they sought to play down Mr. Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s election interference and possible ties to the Trump campaign as a relatively narrow endeavor that does not relieve Congress of its own oversight responsibility. “The job of Congress is much broader than the job of special counsel,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, said on “Fox News Sunday.” “The special counsel was looking and can only look for crimes. We have to protect the rule of law. We have to look for abuses of power. We have to look for obstruction of justice. We have to look for corruption.” Mr. Nadler said that Congress must see Mr. Mueller’s full report and evidence — not just a summary from Mr. Barr — and that he would use a subpoena and take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary to secure those. Mr. Nadler, whose committee would oversee a potential impeachment of the president, said it was “way too early” to discuss such impeachment. Republicans, meanwhile, were eager to portray Democrats as already disappointed by the mystery report and poised to overreach their authority in a desperate effort to damage Mr. Trump politically. Citing a Justice Department comment that there would be no additional indictments from the special counsel, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, Mr. Nadler’s Republican counterpart on the Judiciary Committee, said it was increasingly apparent that the president had been “proved right.” “Let’s be honest with the facts and say probably what the facts show is there was no collusion,” Mr. Collins said on Fox. “Let’s go to the logical choice, that nothing happened.” Mr. Collins also threw cold water on Democrats’ demands for Mr. Mueller’s evidence, saying it was “not the Department of Justice’s job” to turn over material, especially classified and grand jury information, “to go off on a purely partisan investigation to lead toward impeachment.” It was a marked turnabout from Republicans’ position when they were in charge and demanding access to documents for their investigations of F.B.I. and Justice Department conduct. Other Republicans took different tracks. Representative Devin Nunes of California, the top Republican on the Intelligence Committee and one of the leading critics of the Mueller investigation, said whatever had been filed was a “partisan document.” “We can just burn it up,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” He called instead for continued investigation of the F.B.I.’s surveillance of a former Trump campaign aide, Carter Page, and its handling of an unverified dossier assembled by a former British spy laying out a purported conspiracy between Trump associates and Russia. Neither side, to be clear, is in a position to know. Mr. Mueller delivered his full report to Mr. Barr on Friday and its contents have been shared only with a small group of top officials at the Justice Department who spent Friday night, Saturday and early Sunday scouring it to produce a document to share with Congress. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that as of Sunday morning, the president’s team had not been briefed on the report. Mr. Trump, spending the weekend at his Palm Beach, Fla., club, on Sunday continued to keep an uncharacteristic silence over the investigation’s conclusion. Tweeting for the first time since Mr. Mueller handed in his report Friday, Mr. Trump told his 59 million followers, “Good Morning, Have A Great Day!” Mr. Mueller himself was spotted attending Sunday services at St. John’s Church just steps from the White House. Rumors have blossomed in the information vacuum, and critics and defenders of the president have increasingly traded shots over what they think the report will say. In a tweet on Saturday, Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, asked Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, to apologize for saying there was public evidence of collusion between Mr. Trump’s team and Russia. “I hope he will apologize for his mistake,” Mr. Giuliani wrote. “We all make them. The real virtue is to admit it. It would help us heal.” But Mr. Schiff, appearing on ABC’s “This Week,” was prepared to make no such recompense. Instead, he said his committee had seen evidence of collusion — in public reporting and the special counsel’s indictments. “Mr. Giuliani would be wise to do something he has rarely done, and that is wait till we see the facts,” Mr. Schiff said. Chris Cameron contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c97a5b849f0eacbf105ec33", "date": "2019-03-24T15:42:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Giuliani: Trump Lawyers Finishing Mueller Report Rebuttal", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's lawyers are putting the finishing touches on a rebuttal to the forthcoming report by special counsel Robert Mueller. Rudy Giuliani, one of the president's attorneys, said Tuesday that their document will be dozens of pages long. Giuliani says it will be published in the hours after the release of Mueller's report on Russian interference into the 2016 presidential election. The Justice Department says it expects to unveil a redacted version of the 400-page document Thursday. Attorney General Robert Barr last month released a four-page summary of the report and said Mueller did not conclude that Trump's campaign colluded with Russians. He did not rule on whether Trump obstructed justice. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein ruled that he did not.", "id": "5cb639c749f0eacbf1f84ab1", "date": "2019-04-16T20:22:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr to Release Redacted Mueller Report Within a Week", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday he expects to release a redacted version of the special counsel's Trump-Russia investigation report \"within a week.\" Barr told members of Congress at his first public appearance since receiving special counsel Robert Mueller's report that his earlier projection of releasing a version by mid-April still stood. The report, which is nearly 400 pages long, is being scoured now to remove grand jury information and details that relate to pending investigations. Democrats scolded Barr over his handling of the report, telling him they were concerned that a summary of its main conclusions he released last month portrayed the investigation's findings in an overly favorable way for President Donald Trump. Rep. Nita Lowey, the Democratic chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said she was taken aback that Barr had reduced Mueller's report to a four-page letter in just two days. That letter said that Mueller did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates, and that Barr did not believe the evidence in the report was sufficient to prove the president had obstructed justice. \"Even for someone who has done this job before, I would argue it's more suspicious than impressive,\" Lowey said. Explaining the rapid turnaround for his letter, Barr said, \"The thinking of the special counsel was not a mystery to the Department of Justice prior to the submission of the report.\" Barr was summoned to Congress to talk about his department's budget request, but lawmakers still asked about the Mueller report as they waited to see it. Barr's prepared remarks, sent to the committee on Monday, focused on funding requests for immigration enforcement and the fights against violent crime and opioid addiction, not mentioning the special counsel's report at all. Mueller sent his final report to Barr on March 22, ending his almost two-year investigation into possible ties between Trump's 2016 presidential campaign and Russia. Barr released a four-page letter summarizing the report two days later and said he would release a redacted version of the full report by mid-April, \"if not sooner.\" The new attorney general's budget testimony — traditionally a dry affair, and often addressing the parochial concerns of lawmakers — came as Democrats were enraged that he was redacting material from the report and frustrated that his summary framed a narrative about Trump before they were able to see the full version. The Democrats are demanding that they see the full report and all its underlying evidence, though Trump and his Republican allies are pushing back. The chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee, Democratic Rep. Jose Serrano of New York, told Barr there were \"serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report.\" Barr said in the summary released last month that Mueller didn't find a criminal conspiracy between the campaign and the Kremlin. He also said that Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether the president obstructed justice, instead presenting evidence on both sides of the question. Barr said he and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein decided that the evidence was insufficient to establish obstruction. Facing the intensifying concerns from Democrats that he may have whitewashed Mueller's findings, Barr has twice moved to defend, or at least explain, his handling of the process since receiving the special counsel's report. He has said that he did not intend for his four-page summary of Mueller's main conclusions to be an \"exhaustive recounting\" of his work and that he could not immediately release the entire report because it included grand jury material and other sensitive information that needed to be redacted. He is likely to be asked to further explain himself at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing Wednesday that is also on the budget. Barr is to testify on the report itself at separate hearings before the Senate and House Judiciary committees on May 1 and May 2. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a New York Democrat and chairman of the House Judiciary panel, confirmed the May 2 date on Twitter and said he would like Mueller to testify. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., has said he would be satisfied hearing only from Barr and not Mueller.", "id": "5caf82b549f0eacbf1f82ed2", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Congress Waits as Barr Blacks Out Parts of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Investigators for the special counsel spent months trying to get answers from President Trump: what he knew about a meeting between senior campaign aides and Russians; about changes to the Republican Party platform making it more Russia-friendly; about his associates’ outreach to WikiLeaks as it prepared to publish Democratic emails stolen by Russian hackers. After months of resistance, his lawyers finally turned over written answers in November to those questions and others. But the public has not seen them. Now, the question of whether they become part of the available history of Russia’s 2016 election interference and its aftermath — along with whatever else the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, may have gathered — turns on Attorney General William P. Barr. Since Mr. Mueller submitted a nearly 400-page report on his investigation two weeks ago, Mr. Barr, his aides and other law enforcement officials have been reviewing it to determine which portions to provide to lawmakers and the public — and what to black out. Democrats in Congress, who have demanded to see the entire document, have expressed growing impatience with Mr. Barr. And members of Mr. Mueller’s team have told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately convey findings that were damaging to Mr. Trump in a letter he sent to Congress two weeks ago laying out their chief conclusions. Mr. Barr has promised to give lawmakers — by mid-April, “if not sooner” — as much of the report as possible, subject to several categories of necessary deletions. But much will turn on how expansively or narrowly he interprets those categories. The first category that Mr. Barr planned to black out is secret grand jury information. A federal rule of criminal procedure generally forbids disclosure of such material, like citing a witness’s testimony before the jury or a disclosing that a document was obtained with a grand jury subpoena. Notably, however, for the investigation into whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, the special counsel gathered information from witnesses primarily through F.B.I. interviews, according to lawyers familiar with the inquiry. Mr. Barr could share grand jury information with Congress if a judge issues an order permitting it, as happened in 1974 during the Watergate scandal. But it is not clear whether the Trump administration’s Justice Department would consent or instead fight any request by lawmakers to see the grand jury material. Nor is it clear that such a ruling would extend to letting the public see that material. It is also not clear whether a key difference from 1974 — the House Judiciary Committee had already opened an impeachment inquiry against President Richard M. Nixon, but none are pending against Mr. Trump — would change the outcome. On Friday, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in an unrelated case, adopted a narrow reading of when courts may authorize the disclosure of grand-jury information and criticized the legal basis for the Watergate precedent, but stopped short of overturning it. Still, Samuel W. Buell, a Duke University law professor and former prosecutor, said the House should ask a judge to intervene. “There is going to be an awful lot of redaction, and the question becomes, ‘What is Congress going to do about that?’” he said. “It seems to me that they can and should go to court. It’s not up to the Justice Department to make the final decision about what Congress sees.” The second category Mr. Barr has identified for redaction is “material the intelligence community identifies as potentially compromising sensitive sources and methods.” Mr. Mueller has already disclosed some elements of his findings in the indictments of Russians for their clandestine manipulations of American social media and their hacking of Democratic emails. But it is virtually certain that Mr. Mueller learned more than what was on display in those court filings — including information whose disclosure could reveal secret American intelligence sources about the Russian government’s inner workings. While all members of Congress have security clearances, Mr. Barr may decide that to reduce the possibility of leaks, certain findings from Mr. Mueller’s investigation can be told only to the intelligence committees, or even just the Gang of Eight, the top congressional leaders and the leaders of the intelligence panels. The third category Mr. Barr has said will be off limits to Congress is “material that could affect other ongoing matters, including those that the special counsel has referred to other department offices.” In the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller uncovered information about potential crimes that fell outside his core mandate and handed that evidence to other federal prosecutors. The Southern District of New York, for example, handled the prosecution of Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, for campaign finance and other crimes. That district is also now looking at the Trump inauguration committee’s finances, aspects of which the special counsel’s office previously scrutinized. The special counsel also developed cases that are not yet resolved, including the indictment in Washington of Roger J. Stone Jr., Mr. Trump’s longtime associate and adviser, as well as a dispute over a subpoena with an unidentified foreign-owned corporation. And there is something of a wild card: The F.B.I. has an open-ended counterintelligence investigation into Russia. The fourth category Mr. Barr has said he will redact is “information that would unduly infringe on the personal privacy and reputational interests of peripheral third parties.” The Justice Department traditionally does not make public unflattering information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime. By focusing on “peripheral” people, Mr. Barr has indicated that some people are so central to the investigation — presumably including Mr. Trump himself — that he may make an exception and allow more abundant material to go to Congress and become public. But much may depend on his decisions about who counts as central and who counts as a bit player. There are several types of privilege that could come into play. One is executive privilege, a power of presidents to keep secret from Congress certain internal executive branch information, like communications involving the president or his close advisers and, sometimes, internal agency deliberations. Another is attorney-client privilege, the power to keep secret a client’s discussions with his lawyer. Mr. Trump permitted his aides and legal advisers who might fall under one or both of those privileges, like the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, to speak to Mr. Mueller’s team. But it is not clear whether that waiver would extend to sharing information with Congress, and there are few court precedents to define the limits of that secrecy power. Mr. Barr has told Congress, “Although the president would have the right to assert privilege over certain parts of the report, he has stated publicly that he intends to defer to me and, accordingly, there are no plans to submit the report to the White House for a privilege review.” But what he meant is ambiguous, and the Justice Department has declined to provide clarity. Katie Benner contributed reporting.  ", "id": "5ca9bc7149f0eacbf1f816a6", "date": "2019-04-07T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says Mueller Report Will Be Redacted and Made Public by Mid-April", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The special counsel’s report on the investigation into Russia’s election interference will be made public by mid-April, Attorney General William P. Barr told lawmakers on Friday, adding that the White House would not see the document before he sent it to Congress. “Everyone will soon be able to read it,” Mr. Barr wrote in a letter to the chairmen of the congressional judiciary committees. Prosecutors from the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and other law enforcement officials are scouring the report for sensitive information to black out before releasing it, including secret grand jury testimony, classified materials and information about other continuing federal investigations, Mr. Barr wrote. He said the report — which covers Moscow’s campaign to sabotage the 2016 presidential race, whether any Trump associates conspired and whether the president obstructed the inquiry — was nearly 400 pages, plus supplements. He said he planned to testify on Capitol Hill in early May, shortly after the report’s release, to discuss it with lawmakers. [Read Mr. Barr’s letter.] Mr. Barr, who was sworn in as attorney general last month, has committed since his confirmation hearing to making public as much of the highly anticipated report as possible. But his declaration on Sunday, two days after the report was delivered to him, that Mr. Trump had not illegally obstructed justice drew swift condemnation from Democrats. They accused him of stepping in where Mr. Mueller had declined to make a prosecutorial decision. Mr. Barr said that Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, concurred with his finding on the obstruction question but noted that Mr. Mueller, while he declined to make a judgment on the issue, also stopped short of explicitly exonerating the president. The House passed a resolution this month, 420 to 0, demanding that the full report be released. Democrats have called for the Justice Department to send them the underlying investigative files as well. “Congress requires the full and complete Mueller report, without redactions, as well as access to the underlying evidence,” Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement in response to Mr. Barr’s letter. Mr. Trump has already seized on Mr. Barr’s findings as vindication, declaring during a rally with supporters on Thursday night in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the cloud hanging over his presidency had finally cleared. “After three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead,” Mr. Trump said. “The collusion delusion is over.” Mr. Trump said during a news conference on Friday in Florida that he had nothing to hide and that he had “great confidence” in Mr. Barr. “This was a hoax,” Mr. Trump said of the investigation. Mr. Barr has weighed whether to assert the administration’s power to keep portions of the report secret from Congress, under the executive privilege that can protect internal information like the president’s private conversations. Some of those discussions were at the heart of the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed the inquiry, complicating the issue. Mr. Barr reiterated that Mr. Trump had publicly stated that he would defer to the Justice Department, “although the president would have the right to assert privilege over certain parts of the report,” the attorney general wrote. “Accordingly, there are no plans to submit the report to the White House for a privilege review,” Mr. Barr added. However, it remains an open question whether Justice Department lawyers themselves will excise material they believe could be privileged before sending the report to Congress. It is also not clear whether Mr. Barr or other politically appointed officials would be a part of such a redaction process. A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on how the department would handle executive privilege issues. House Democrats have already begun portraying the results of the Mueller investigation as a starting point for their scrutiny of Mr. Trump. They have opened investigations into Mr. Trump’s campaign and his business dealings before and after he took office, and other law enforcement investigations loom, including inquiries into Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee and his role in hush-money payments during the election to women who claimed extramarital affairs with him. Mr. Trump has denied the affairs, though he has insisted that the payments were private transactions that violated no laws. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  ", "id": "5c9e74ac49f0eacbf108e044", "date": "2019-03-29T19:38:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says He’ll Release Mueller Report ‘Within a Week’ as He Defends His Handling of It", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr vowed on Tuesday to release a redacted version of the Mueller report “within a week,” defending his handling of the special counsel investigation’s findings as a bid for transparency as Democrats accused him of politically motivated behavior. Mr. Barr said he would explain his redactions and was open to negotiating with lawmakers about revealing some of the delicate information that he and law enforcement officials are blacking out from the highly anticipated report before he sends it to Congress and the public. “This process is going along very well, and my original timetable of being able to release this by mid-April stands,” Mr. Barr said at a House budget hearing. “And so I think that from my standpoint, within a week I will be in a position to release the report to the public.” [Read Mr. Barr’s top takeaways from the Mueller report.] But he was less forthcoming about aspects of his review, declining to say whether President Trump had been briefed on the report after Justice Department and White House officials had said for weeks that the president has not been updated on its contents. And he did not explain why he cleared Mr. Trump of committing an obstruction-of-justice offense when Mr. Mueller’s team declined to make a decision. Democrats assailed Mr. Barr’s decision to send a four-page letter to Congress in March outlining the main findings of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, pointing to complaints by members of the special counsel’s team that Mr. Barr failed to fully portray the extent of how damaging their conclusions might be for Mr. Trump. “The American people have been left with many unanswered questions, serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report,” said Representative José E. Serrano, Democrat of New York and the head of the appropriations subcommittee that covers the Justice Department. Mr. Barr insisted that he had accurately delivered the “bottom line” conclusions from Mr. Mueller’s inquiry into Russia’s election interference and whether any Trump associates conspired, as well as whether President Trump tried to impede the inquiry. He said that Mr. Mueller declined an opportunity to read his March 24 letter before Mr. Barr sent it to lawmakers. And Mr. Barr warned that trying to quickly summarize the report more fully would have exposed him to a minefield of potential criticism. “I was not interested in putting out summaries or trying to summarize,” Mr. Barr said, “because I think any summary, regardless of who prepares it, not only runs the risk of being under-inclusive or over-inclusive, but also would trigger a lot of discussion and analysis that really should await everything coming out at once.” Mr. Barr pushed back on Democrats’ complaints that they did not have the report, reminding them that they would be able to read it in days. And as for his four-page letter, he suggested that had he not written it, lawmakers would have bitterly complained if they were given no information or insight into Mr. Mueller’s conclusions during the redaction process. “In my judgment, it was important for people to know the bottom-line conclusions of the report while we worked on necessary redactions to make the whole thing available,” said Mr. Barr, adding that he anticipated that the redactions would take weeks. The back and forth came during an unusually contentious House appropriations subcommittee hearing, where Mr. Barr also defended the Trump administration’s hardening stance on immigration and the Justice Department’s decision to stand down rather than appeal a federal judge’s decision to strike down the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Barr also revealed that the Justice Department inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, is wrapping up an examination of parts of the Russia investigation, including accusations that law enforcement officials abused their powers to wiretap Carter Page, a former Trump campaign adviser. Mr. Horowitz could reveal the results as early as May or June, Mr. Barr said. Though Democrats have for weeks demanded to see the full text of the Mueller report and all underlying investigative materials, Mr. Barr reminded them that he is operating under rules written by Clinton administration officials to prevent a repetition of the Monica Lewinsky scandal. In 1998, Ken Starr gave lawmakers a long report that contained detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president. More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation. Under the current regulations, the special counsel delivers a confidential report of investigative decisions to the attorney general, who is free to decide what to release. “I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can,” Mr. Barr said. To that end, Mr. Barr repeated his promise that lawmakers would receive a redacted report in mid-April and that he would testify about its contents soon afterward. He said that he would identify which of four categories redacted material fell into — secret grand jury testimony, classified information, materials that could affect current investigations and information about peripheral third parties. Those were the same types of information that Democrats have fought to protect when Republicans tried to obtain documents from the Justice Department. Though Mr. Barr said he was open to negotiating whether the department could share some of the redacted details after releasing the report, he took a harder line on grand jury testimony. While Congress can request it in the context of a legal proceeding, he said he was not obligated to honor such a request. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said that once he received the redacted report, he would issue a subpoena for the complete document and petition a court for the grand jury testimony. “If it doesn’t have everything we require to do our work, which is to say the entire report and underlying evidence in it, we will issue subpoenas forthwith,” Mr. Nadler told reporters on Tuesday. Democrats were taking other steps to try to get ahold of information pertinent to the Russia investigation. Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, told reporters later on Tuesday that he believed requirements that the intelligence agencies regularly update their congressional oversight committees on significant developments could allow a side-door view into the findings of Mr. Mueller and the investigators who worked with him. Mr. Schiff said he had made a request along those lines in recent weeks but had not yet received a response. Justice Department officials have said that they have not shared the report or briefed the White House on its contents, so the demurral raised the possibility that the situation had shifted. Mr. Barr is likely to be pressed on the matter on Wednesday, when he is scheduled to testify before Senate appropriators. Mr. Barr visited Capitol Hill to answer questions about the Justice Department’s proposed $29.2 billion budget for the next fiscal year, which includes money for 100 new judges for immigration courts, which are part of the department, not the judicial system. He also echoed the president’s increasingly hard-line stance on immigration, which has touched off a purge of Department of Homeland Security officials who Mr. Trump believes impeded his goal of shutting the southwestern border entirely. Mr. Barr called the situation along the border with Mexico “unprecedented” and said that part of the Justice Department’s request for an additional $72.1 million for immigration enforcement would pay for the new immigration judges to tackle a backlog of cases. Democrats, who see health care as one of their top campaign issues, also assailed Mr. Barr and the Justice Department for declining to appeal a Texas judge’s decision to strike down the Affordable Care Act on the grounds that the sweeping health care law was unconstitutional. Under fire for the decision, Mr. Barr said: “I’m a lawyer. I’m not in charge of health care.” But his comment belied the fact that his refusal to defend a law on the books can effectively shape policy. While Mr. Barr would not disclose any discussions with Mr. Trump over the health care law, he said that he would follow the wishes of the president so long as his request was legally defensible. Nicholas Fandos and Charlie Savage contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.    ", "id": "5cad217849f0eacbf1f821f9", "date": "2019-04-09T22:47:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr to Release Mueller Report 'Within a Week'", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr said on Tuesday he expected to release next week the public version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on whether President Donald Trump's campaign worked with Moscow to influence the 2016 election. \"Within a week I will be in position to release that report to the public and then I will engage with the chairmen of both judiciary committees about that report, about any further requests that they have,\" Barr said during a House Appropriations Committee hearing.   (Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)", "id": "5cacc00f49f0eacbf1f81eb8", "date": "2019-04-09T15:52:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Read William Barr’s Letter to Congress on the Mueller Report", "full_text": " Attorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter late Friday that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election and delivered a report to the Department of Justice.  See the letter here and read a transcript below. [What’s next? We break it down as well as the major moments in the case. And here’s the latest analysis on Trump and the Mueller report.] ________________________ Dear Chairman Graham, Chairman Nadler, Ranking Member Feinstein, and Ranking Member Collins: I write to notify you pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(a)(3) that Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III has concluded his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election and related matters. In addition to this notification, the Special Counsel regulations require that I provide you with “a description and explanation of instances (if any) in which the Attorney General” or acting Attorney General “concluded that a proposed action by a Special Counsel was so inappropriate or unwarranted under established Departmental practices that it should not be pursued.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(a)(3). There were no such instances during the Special Counsel’s investigation. The Special Counsel has submitted to me today a “confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions” he has reached, as required by 28 C.F.R. § 600.8(c). I am reviewing the report and anticipate that I may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsel’s principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. Separately, I intend to consult with Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Special Counsel Mueller to determine what other information from the report can be released to Congress and the public consistent with the law, including the Special Counsel regulations, and the Department’s long-standing practices and policies. I remain committed to as much transparency as possible, and I will keep you informed as to the status of my review. Finally, the Special Counsel regulations provide that “the Attorney General may determine that public release of” this notification “would be in the public interest.” 28 C.F.R. § 600.9(c). I have so determined, and I will disclose this letter to the public after delivering it to you. Sincerely, William P. Barr Attorney General More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.    ", "id": "5c95588c49f0eacbf105e962", "date": "2019-03-22T21:48:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Says Mueller Report Will Be Public ‘Within a Week’", "full_text": " • Attorney General William P. Barr said he will deliver the Mueller report to Congress and the public within a week, reiterating his earlier promise to release it by mid-April. • Testifying before the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday, Mr. Barr said he would be transparent about redactions in the report. But he demurred when asked whether he has briefed the White House on it. • The Justice Department inspector general expects to finish an examination of aspects of the Russia investigation by May or June, Mr. Barr revealed. • Mr. Barr has tried to keep the appropriations hearing focused on the department’s proposed $29.2 billion budget, which includes money for 100 new immigration judges as President Trump hardens his stance on immigration along the southwestern border. Mr. Barr, hit immediately with questions about his handling of the Mueller report by Democrats, reiterated his vow to be as transparent as possible and said that he will turn over a redacted version of the report to Congress and the public within a week. Mr. Barr went over the categories of information he says he must black out — like information that is subject to grand-jury secrecy rules — and said that whatever he censors in the report, he will identify the reason. “This process is going along very well and my original timetable of being able to release this by mid-April stands,” he said. “And so I think that from my standpoint, within a week I will be in a position to release the report to the public.” Representative José E. Serrano, Democrat of New York and the head of the appropriations subcommittee that covers the Justice Department, pressed Mr. Barr to say whether the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or his staff had played any role in drafting or reviewing two letters that Mr. Barr sent to Congress late last month about the report. Mr. Barr said that the special counsel had not participated in writing those letters, nor seen them in advance, though he gave Mr. Mueller the chance to see his letter summarizing the investigation’s main findings. “The letter of the 24th, Mr. Mueller’s team did not play a role in drafting that document, although we offered him the opportunity to review it before we sent it out and he declined that,” Mr. Barr said. “The letter on the 29th, I don’t believe that that was reviewed by Mr. Mueller or that they participated in drafting that letter.” Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the full Appropriations Committee, pressed Mr. Barr to say whether the White House has seen or been briefed on the contents of the Mueller report beyond what was in his letters about it to Congress. But Mr. Barr refused to answer. “I’ve said what I’m going to say about the report today,” he said. “I’ve issued three letters about it. I was willing to discuss the historic information of how the report came to me and my decision on Sunday,” March 24, when he wrote a four-page letter to Congress laying out the special counsel’s top-line findings. “But I’ve already laid out the process that is going forward to release these reports hopefully within a week,” he added. “I’m not going to say anything more about it until the report is out and everyone has a chance to look at it.” In the past, Justice Department officials have said that Mr. Barr had not shown the White House any part of the Mueller report or briefed Mr. Trump’s team about its contents. His demurral on Tuesday raised the possibility that the situation has shifted and the White House knows more than the public or Congress about what Mr. Mueller said. Democrats who lead the House Appropriations Committee were eager to press Mr. Barr on what one called “the elephant in the room”: his handling of the highly anticipated special counsel’s report. “The American people have been left with many unanswered questions; serious concerns about the process by which you formulated your letter; and uncertainty about when we can expect to see the full report,” Mr. Serrano said in his opening remarks. “I think it would strike a serious blow to our system and yes to our democracy if that report is not fully seen,” he added. Democrats have criticized Mr. Barr’s decision to share Mr. Mueller’s top-line findings in a four-page letter that quoted sparingly from the report itself and his declaration that Mr. Trump had not committed an obstruction-of-justice offense after Mr. Mueller declined to make a prosecutorial judgment. They renewed their complaints after The New York Times revealed last week that some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators have complained that Mr. Barr failed to fully represent their findings and that they were more damaging for the president than the attorney general indicated. On Tuesday, they had their first chance to level criticism in person. Ms. Lowey called Mr. Barr’s handling of the Mueller report “unacceptable” and questioned how quickly he summarized the findings in his March 24 letter. “Even for someone who has done this job before,” she said, referring to Mr. Barr’s first stint as attorney general in the 1990s, “I would argue it is more suspicious than impressive.” Batting back Democrats’ criticism, Mr. Barr insisted that he had accurately delivered the “bottom-line” conclusions of the special counsel’s investigation in his letter to Congress and warned that attempting to quickly summarize the report more fully would have exposed him to a minefield of potential criticism. Asked about The Times’s reporting on frustrations among some of Mr. Mueller’s investigators about the narrow scope of his letter laying out their findings, Mr. Barr appeared unswayed. “I was not interested in putting out summaries or trying to summarize,” Mr. Barr said, “because I think any summary, regardless of who prepares it, not only runs the risk of being under-inclusive or over-inclusive, but also would trigger a lot of discussion and analysis that really should await everything coming out at once.” Each page of the report was marked that it might contain secret grand jury material and could not be readily released anyway, he said. He also said he had asked the intelligence community to review the report for any information that might compromise their sources and methods of intelligence-gathering and would thus need to be redacted. But he did not address his decision to step in and make a judgment on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice after Mr. Mueller’s team conspicuously did not. Republicans tried to help Mr. Barr hammer home the report’s top-line findings. “The conclusions were simple: no collusion, no obstruction,” said Representative Tom Graves, Republican of Georgia, ignoring Mr. Mueller’s statement that the investigation did not “exonerate” Mr. Trump of obstruction and that it found no criminal conspiracy between any Trump associates and Russia’s election interference. Mr. Graves added, “Is there anything new you have seen that would change your conclusions?” Mr. Barr responded, “There is nothing to suggest to me” that the conclusions have changed. “The letter speaks for itself.” [Congress waits as Barr blacks out parts of the Mueller report.] One of the key reasons Mr. Barr has said he must black out portions of the Mueller report before showing it to Congress is a federal rule of criminal procedure that forbids Justice Department officials from disclosing grand-jury information to outsiders. On its face, that rule — known as 6(e) — makes no exception for Congress. There are exceptions to the rule, however, particularly if a judge issues an order permitting the material to be disclosed. That happened in 1974, when a judge overseeing the Watergate grand jury permitted the evidence it gathered to be sent to the House Judiciary Committee, which had opened an impeachment inquiry into President Nixon. But the executive branch in 1974 supported sending the evidence to Congress. Mr. Barr was asked whether his Justice Department would be willing to join a similar motion to allow Congress to see the grand-jury material that Mr. Mueller gathered. But Mr. Barr said he has no such intention. He said if House Judiciary Committee members want to see that material, they can ask the judge. “The chairman of the Judiciary Committee is free to go to court if he feels one of those exceptions is applicable,” Mr. Barr said, adding: “My intention is not to ask for it at this stage. I mean, if the chairman has a good explanation of why 6(e) does not apply and his need for the information, I’m willing to listen.” Under pressure to give Congress the entire text of the Mueller report, Mr. Barr repeatedly reminded his critics that he is operating under rules written by Clinton administration officials to prevent a repetition of the Whitewater-Monica Lewinsky scandal, where Ken Starr gave lawmakers a long report that contained detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president. Mr. Barr’s point seemed to be: If you have a problem with this process, blame the Clinton Democrats. “This whole mechanism for the special counsel, as I said, was established during the Clinton administration in the wake of Ken Starr’s report,” Mr. Barr said. “That’s why the current rule says the report should be kept confidential, because there was a lot of reaction against the publication of Ken Starr’s report and many of the people who are right now calling for release of this report were basically castigating Ken Starr and others for releasing the Starr report.” Mr. Starr, the independent counsel leading the Clinton investigation, was operating under a now-defunct law that gave him the authority to send a report directly to Congress. The Republican-controlled Congress promptly made the whole thing public. That experience helped persuade members of Congress of both parties that the independent counsel law should be permitted to lapse in 1999. But there was still a need for some kind of mechanism for prosecutors with a degree of independence to investigate potential high-level executive-branch wrongdoing. Under then-Attorney General Janet Reno, the Clinton administration issued the special counsel regulation that governed Mr. Mueller’s investigation. Among other things, it called for the special counsel to write a “confidential” report for the attorney general, who would then relay his own report to Congress saying the investigation was over. In short, those rules did not envision a lengthy report from Mr. Mueller going to Congress and being published for the public to read — in any form. “You will recognize that I’m operating under a regulation that was put together during the Clinton administration and does not provide for the publication of the report,” Mr. Barr said. “But I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can.” Representative Matt Cartwright, Democrat of Pennsylvania, assailed Mr. Barr and the Justice Department for declining to defend the Affordable Care Act in federal court in Texas, where a judge recently struck down the sweeping health care law as unconstitutional. Mr. Cartwright accused Mr. Barr of putting the weight of the Justice Department behind a political effort to invalidate the law and warned that it could result in millions of people losing their health care coverage. Mr. Barr did not dispute that he had decided to no longer defend the law but told Mr. Cartwright that he had “nothing to worry about” if he thought that the department had taken “such an outrageous position” because the government was likely to lose the case in question. “Let the courts do their job,” Mr. Barr said. Republicans have challenged the law in various court cases since it was passed nine years ago. Late last year, a federal judge in Texas struck down the law on the grounds that its requirement that Americans buy health insurance was unconstitutional. The Justice Department had said last summer that it would no longer defend that mandate, and broadened its attack on the law last month, telling a federal appeals court that it believed the entire law should be invalidated. If the court accepts that argument, millions of people could lose health insurance. Mr. Barr declined to speculate about the impact of the Justice Department’s decision not to defend the law, though he acknowledged that it could end with no plan in place for those who depend on the law to maintain coverage. The exchange underscored Mr. Barr’s sweeping view of executive power and that the attorney general ultimately answers to the president. Though the Justice Department generally defends the law in any challenges to it, Mr. Barr indicated he was willing to make an exception in a case where the president asked for something different so long as it was legally defensible. Mr. Barr is requesting an additional $72.1 million for immigration enforcement — an amount that would fund 100 new immigration judges — at a time when Mr. Trump has hardened his stance against illegal immigration and asylum seekers. Over the past two days, he has purged top immigration and security leaders to accelerate that goal. While the additional judges will “provide some relief from a critical backlog in the immigration courts,” Mr. Barr said, he also said that an influx of cases “constrains our ability to manage the backlog of cases, and other reforms are necessary.” The Justice Department oversees the nation’s immigration judges, who are separate from the judicial branch. Mr. Barr also said that “attacking those transnational criminal organizations is a high priority” for the department and noted that the Justice Department is asking for more than $140 million in budget increases at the F.B.I., the Drug Enforcement Administration and elsewhere to address drug crimes. The Justice Department inspector general intends to complete by May or June his investigation into aspects of the Russia inquiry, including whether law enforcement officials abused their surveillance powers to spy on a Trump campaign aide, Mr. Barr said. The inspector general, Michael E. Horowitz, has been examining how the F.B.I. and Justice Department obtained a secret warrant in October 2016 to wiretap Carter Page, a former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser. Republicans have accused law enforcement officials of improperly obtaining the warrant because they relied in part on Democratic-funded opposition research compiled by Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who was also an F.B.I. informant, in seeking permission from the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to surveil Mr. Page. As part of his investigation, Mr. Horowitz is also scrutinizing the F.B.I.’s relationship with Mr. Steele. Mr. Barr also said he was studying the F.B.I.’s decision to begin investigating ties between Russia and Mr. Trump’s campaign during the 2016 election, Mr. Barr said. He said he was trying to get his “arms around all the aspects of the counterintelligence investigation.” An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a congresswoman on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Representative Nita M. Lowey, not Nina. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionVicki Divoll  ", "id": "5cac829849f0eacbf1f81d0a", "date": "2019-04-09T11:30:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? It’s Largely Up to the New Attorney General", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Justice Department will soon receive a final accounting from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, of his nearly two-year investigation into how Russia influenced the 2016 election, whether the Trump campaign participated in those efforts and whether President Trump obstructed justice. But there is no guarantee that the public will ever see that full report. The special counsel regulations say that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his prosecutorial decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, and that the attorney general must then send a summary of that work to Congress. The regulations leave Mr. Barr considerable flexibility as to how much detail he provides to Congress and the public, discretion that was built into the regulations in response to the independent counsel Ken Starr’s decision to give Congress a lengthy — and, critics said, salacious — report on his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a young White House intern. Once the special counsel’s office delivers its report and closes its doors, the work of the Justice Department and Congress to inform the public of Mr. Mueller’s findings begins. While Mr. Barr must tell lawmakers why the special counsel’s work concluded, he does not have a legal obligation to give them the full details of Mr. Mueller’s report. Although there have been high-profile exceptions, the Justice Department generally does not publish derogatory information about individuals not charged with crimes. As a result, it is not clear how much information, if any, Mr. Barr would choose to include about Mr. Trump and other key figures in the investigation if there are no charges against them. Congress, for its part, is unlikely to be satisfied with anything short of a full copy of Mr. Mueller’s work. Democrats have expressed concern that Mr. Barr harbors a pro-Trump bias, in part due to his expansive view of executive power and also because, before being nominated as attorney general, he wrote a 19-page memo arguing that Mr. Trump’s decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director was not an act of obstruction. Democratic lawmakers are now debating how best to get the information that they believe must be shared with Congress, and by extension the public. “Barr should release the report with minimal redactions,” Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said in a statement this month. “The subjects of the investigations get to the very root of our democracy, and to withhold it from the American people would be absolutely unacceptable.” Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearings that he would be as transparent as possible within the scope of the special counsel rules. The Justice Department will comb Mr. Mueller’s report for classified information and for grand jury testimony that cannot be shared in whatever summary Mr. Barr provides to Congress. “Barr has to make sure that the investigators’ sources and methods are not going to be compromised and that grand jury information is protected,” said Neal Katyal, a former department official who wrote the special counsel rules. Justice Department lawyers will have to balance the value of disclosing information that bolsters the public’s faith in the department’s integrity with the risk of compromising national security or other sensitive information. Depending on the length of the report, the process could take days or more than a week. The special counsel regulations, created in 1999, say that Mr. Barr must provide a report to the senior Republicans and Democrats on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. The report must explain why Mr. Mueller’s work concluded and list any times the attorney general told the special counsel’s office it could not take a proposed action. The regulations are not specific about how much detail Mr. Barr must provide, stating that the attorney general could publicly release the report if he determines it is in the public interest. Mr. Barr has said he will hew closely to the rules, which give him the option of sharing only a bare-bones accounting of the Mueller report. Democrats in Congress have said they want to see the whole thing. “Regulations governing Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation do not prohibit Attorney General Barr from disclosing Mueller’s final report and investigative materials to Congress,” Ms. Feinstein said in a statement on Friday, “and I repeat my call for the attorney general to provide the report unedited once it has been provided to him.” Some of the key questions in the special counsel’s investigation concern whether Mr. Trump was working on behalf of Russia and whether he obstructed justice, serious allegations that could result in criminal charges. A longstanding Justice Department opinion says that a sitting president cannot be criminally indicted, guidance that makes it unlikely that Mr. Mueller will charge Mr. Trump. Because of the department’s practice of not making derogatory statements about people who are not charged with crimes, Mr. Barr would have cover, if he chose to use it, to omit any damning information that Mr. Mueller might transmit to him about Mr. Trump. Mr. Comey caused a public outcry in the summer of 2016 when he said after an investigation that “no reasonable prosecutor” would charge Hillary Clinton, but then publicly excoriated her use of a private email server. But Mr. Katyal said there was an important difference between Mr. Comey’s handling of the Clinton investigation and the choice that Mr. Barr faces: Unlike Mrs. Clinton, he said, Mr. Trump controls the Justice Department, essentially leaving Congress to hold him accountable for misdeeds. Mr. Barr’s summary could act as the road map Congress needs to fulfill its oversight role and weigh the possibility of impeachment. The question of how or whether the department would handle a referral to Congress for impeachment remains unclear. If Mr. Mueller found that the president committed a grave offense and wants Congress and the world to know, he could seek an indictment of the president. If Mr. Barr then chose to stick with the department’s opinion that a sitting president cannot be indicted, he would have to inform Congress of that decision, because the special counsel rules require the attorney general to tell Congress of any time that he denied a proposed action by the special counsel and why. “The special counsel regulations grapple with how to police high-level executive branch wrongdoing,” Mr. Katyal said. “If a sitting president can’t be indicted, then Congress must decide whether it must act, and it would need more information from Mr. Barr to make that decision.” If lawmakers are not satisfied by the summary that Mr. Barr provides, they can begin the process of extracting more information from the Justice Department by requesting documents and subpoenaing information, including the Mueller report itself. Congress can also call witnesses, including Mr. Mueller, to testify in a public hearing or a private deposition. And lawmakers can use their bully pulpits to publicly pressure Mr. Barr for more information, tying the Justice Department up in hearings and subpoena fights that last for the rest of Mr. Trump’s time in office. Democratic leaders are already laying the groundwork to obtain as much information about the Mueller report as possible, saying that the department has established a precedent of giving Congress sensitive information. “In other closed and pending high-profile cases alleging wrongdoing by public officials, both the department and the F.B.I. have produced substantial amounts of investigative material, including classified and law enforcement sensitive information,” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and other Democratic committee leaders said in a letter to Mr. Barr on Friday. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c70580b3a125f5075c0b148", "date": "2019-02-22T20:12:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "2020 Candidates Demand Full and Immediate Release of Mueller Report", "full_text": " CHARLESTON, S.C. — Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding the immediate public release of the long-awaited report from Robert S. Mueller III, with several saying that Americans deserved to know any findings about President Trump, Russia and the 2016 election in order to form judgments about Mr. Trump and the 2020 race. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke, campaigning in South Carolina on Friday night, told reporters that “those facts, that truth, needs to be laid out for all Americans to be able to make informed decisions going forward, whether at the ballot box” or in their discussions with their senators and representatives. Mr. O’Rourke, asked if he supported impeaching Mr. Trump, said he believed the president and his 2016 campaign “at least sought to collude with the Russian government to undermine our democracy” and that Mr. Trump “sought to obstruct justice” once in office. “I think those are grounds enough for members of the House to bring up the issue of impeachment,” he said. “But whether they do or not, this will ultimately be decided by the American public at the ballot box in South Carolina and in every state of the union.” No voters brought up the Mueller report to Mr. O’Rourke as he spoke to them Friday. Indeed, in the hours after the announcement of the report, Democratic candidates reacted over Twitter or in remarks at events rather than in back-and-forth conversations with voters. Several candidates, in calling for the swift release of the report, also sought to gather new supporters and their email addresses by putting out “petitions” calling for complete transparency from the Justice Department. “The Trump Administration shouldn’t get to lock up Robert Mueller’s report and throw away the key,” Senator Cory Booker argued on Twitter, asking people to sign a petition and provide their names and emails. Such information is often used for future fund-raising solicitations. Within hours of Mr. Mueller’s completing his investigation, Senator Elizabeth Warren and the campaign arm of House Democrats were already placing ads on Facebook demanding the full report’s release, with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee seeking 100,000 signatures for its online petition. With no detailed information available about the report, Ms. Warren and Mr. Booker — as well as Senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris — sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Attorney General William P. Barr would release the full report. “Attorney General Barr — release the Mueller report to the American public. Now,” Ms. Warren wrote on Twitter. [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Gillibrand made similar demands and also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: “See you Sunday.” That is when Ms. Gillibrand plans to formally kick off her 2020 campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York. Ms. Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released “immediately,” called on Mr. Barr to “publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings.” Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren and Ms. Gillibrand also joined Mr. Booker and Senator Bernie Sanders in asking supporters to sign their petitions calling for the report’s immediate release. Four other candidates — Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington; former Representative John Delaney; and Julián Castro — also called for the release of the full report. “As Donald Trump said, ‘Let it come out,’” Mr. Sanders wrote on Twitter. “I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Mueller’s full report public as soon as possible. No one, including the president, is above the law.” Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c9578b449f0eacbf105e9b0", "date": "2019-03-23T00:05:46+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Latest: Trump May Speak After Mueller Report's Release", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Latest on the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign (all times local): 5:10 p.m. President Donald Trump says he may hold a press conference after the release of the redacted version of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on Thursday. Trump is expressing confidence about the findings of Mueller's Russia probe in an interview with conservative radio host Larry O'Connor. He says, \"You'll see a lot of very strong things come out tomorrow.\" Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning as the report is set to be released. Trump says, \"Maybe I'll do one after that, we'll see.\" ___ 4:30 p.m. The Justice Department says Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference Thursday morning on special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation. The news conference will be held at 9:30 a.m. at the Justice Department in Washington. Barr will be joined by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The Justice Department has said a redacted version of Mueller's report will be released Thursday. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted a nearly 400-page report to Barr. __ 2:50 p.m. After nearly two years of waiting, America will get some answers straight from Robert Mueller. The Justice Department on Thursday is expected to release a redacted version of the special counsel's report on Russian election interference and Donald Trump's campaign, opening up months, if not years, of fights over what the document means in a deeply divided country. The nearly 400-page report is expected to reveal what Mueller uncovered about ties between the Trump campaign and Russia that fell short of criminal conduct. It will also lay out the special counsel's conclusions about formative episodes in Trump's presidency, including his firing of FBI Director James Comey and his efforts to undermine the Russia investigation publicly and privately.", "id": "5cb78f8449f0eacbf1f8513f", "date": "2019-04-17T20:40:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Redacted Mueller Report to Be Issued by U.S. Attorney General on Thursday", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr plans on Thursday morning to release a redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election and contacts between Moscow and President Donald Trump's campaign, the Justice Department said on Monday. Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec did not provide a precise time, but said the report, which Barr has described as nearly 400 pages long, will be released both to Congress and the public. Congressional Democrats have demanded the release of the full report with nothing blacked out and also have asked for the underlying evidence gathered by Mueller, meaning Thursday's action by Barr may be just the first move in a longer fight that could play out in the courts. Moments after the department announced its plans for releasing the report, the Republican president went to Twitter to make another attack on Mueller's team and derided the \"Russia Hoax.\" The Mueller investigation has cast a cloud over the presidency of Trump, who has often called it a politically motivated \"witch hunt.\" Mueller turned over a copy of his confidential report to Barr on March 22, ending his 22-month-long inquiry. Two days later, Barr released a four-page letter summarizing what he said were Mueller's primary conclusions. In that letter to Congress, Barr said Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia.  Barr also wrote that Mueller presented evidence \"on both sides\" about whether Trump obstructed justice by acting to impede the inquiry, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump did not commit the crime of obstruction of justice. REDACTION DECISIONS Justice Department regulations give Barr, a Trump appointee and the top U.S. law enforcement officer, broad authority to decide what to release and what to withhold from the report.  Barr has pledged to be as transparent as possible. But he has said he will redact certain portions for reasons including protecting secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to ongoing cases and the privacy of \"peripheral third parties\" who were not charged. The redactions in the report will be colour-coded by category, according to Barr, explaining the reasons that parts are blacked out. After Barr released his four-page letter, Trump claimed \"complete and total exoneration,\" condemned \"an illegal takedown that failed\" and accused unnamed political enemies of treasonous acts. Since Barr released his letter, Trump has set his sights on the FBI, and accused the Justice Department of improperly targeting his campaign. Last week, Barr told a U.S. Senate panel he believed that \"spying\" did occur on Trump's campaign, and he plans to investigate whether it was properly authorized. Barr's comments were criticized by Democrats, already sceptical of how he has handled the report's release. The attorney general has pledged to testify publicly about the report's conclusions before the Senate and House judiciary committees - on May 1 and 2, respectively. The Democratic-led House Judiciary Committee voted on April 3 to empower its chairman, Jerrold Nadler, to issue subpoenas for the full report and underlying evidence. Meanwhile, the top Democrat and Republican on the House Intelligence Committee are also asking Barr to produce all of the investigative materials compiled by Mueller's team and to make Mueller and his staff available for a briefing. In a March 27 letter seen by Reuters on Monday, Democratic Chairman Adam Schiff and top Republican Devin Nunes told Barr they want Mueller to brief them on \"the investigation's scope and areas of inquiry, its findings, and the intelligence and counterintelligence information gathered\" in the investigation.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Additional reporting by Mark Hosenball; Editing by Will Dunham)", "id": "5cb4abe749f0eacbf1f8439e", "date": "2019-04-15T16:04:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "President Trump Says Has Not Read Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday he had not read Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report investigating contacts between his 2016 campaign and Russia that his Democratic opponents say should be released in full. \"I have not read the Mueller Report yet, even though I have every right to do so,\" Trump wrote on Twitter. \"Only know the conclusions, and on the big one, No Collusion.\" U.S. Attorney General William Barr has said he plans to make public a redacted copy of the nearly 400-page investigative report into Russian interference in the 2016 election by the middle of this month, if not sooner. On March 22, Mueller completed his 22-month probe and Barr sent a four-page letter to Congress two days later outlining the main findings. Barr told lawmakers the investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia, but also did not exonerate the president on obstruction of justice. Barr said he had concluded there was not enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction. But news media reports this week said members of Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr, a Trump appointee, had characterized the report's conclusions.  Asked in an interview with Fox and Friends Weekend about calls for the release of the full confidential report, Trump said: “It’s really up to the attorney general, whatever he wants to do.”  In another tweet, Trump called the report \"a total waste of time.\" Barr did not meet a demand by Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives to provide the unredacted report to lawmakers by April 2. He told Congress in a letter last week he must redact material that was presented to a grand jury, as required by law, as well as information that could reveal U.S. intelligence agencies' sources and methods. Congressional Democrats have indicated they will fight those redactions in court if the subpoena is ignored.  Russia's government has denied interfering in the U.S. election.  (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani and David Brunnstrom; Editing by Tom Brown)", "id": "5ca8bd6749f0eacbf1f8157d", "date": "2019-04-06T14:51:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "William Barr Hopes to Update Lawmakers on Mueller Report This Weekend", "full_text": " The attorney general, William P. Barr, will determine how much of the special counsel’s Russia report will be shared with Congress or the public.  The delivery of a report late Friday afternoon from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, to Attorney General William P. Barr might seem like the conclusion of a long-running drama, but it is only the end of the beginning.  Mr. Mueller is not recommending any new charges be filed, a Justice Department official said, but lawmakers conducting their own inquiries will still be able to refer criminal charges to the department. Top members of Congress, and several Democratic presidential candidates, urged Mr. Barr to quickly release as much information as possible. In a letter, Mr. Barr told lawmakers he might be able to share “principal conclusions” of the report this weekend. Mr. Barr will decide how much of the report to release to Congress or the public, and where the case of Russian election interference goes. “The White House has not received or been briefed on the special counsel’s report,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. Mr. Mueller did not suggest additional charges as part of his investigation, when he delivered his findings to Mr. Barr on Friday. This caps the special counsel’s charges at 199, filed against 34 people and three companies. The “principal conclusions” of the special counsel investigation, which Mr. Barr said he might be able to share with lawmakers in the coming days, are not likely to include many details. In a letter to lawmakers, Mr. Barr said he would consult with Mr. Mueller and the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, about what other information from the report can be released. Mr. Mueller’s report could be brief or several hundred pages. It is now up to Mr. Barr to decide how much of it to share with Congress, and when. The late Friday afternoon news dump in Washington is typically reserved space by those wishing to bury bad news. In the case of Mr. Mueller’s report, bad news is most assuredly in the eye of the beholder.  In a brief interview, Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was circumspect about what comes next. “We are confident the attorney general will make the right decision,” he said. “He has to consider the legal matters and rules. I’m confident he’ll make the right call. He’s a very good lawyer — a fine lawyer. We’re very comfortable with any decision.” Mr. Giuliani said that he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend, in part because Mr. Barr said he may update Congress on Mr. Mueller’s findings soon. [Maggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next.] Shortly after the report was delivered, Jay Sekulow and Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers, offered a brief statement: “We’re pleased that the Office of Special Counsel has delivered its report to the Attorney General pursuant to the regulations,” they said. “Attorney General Barr will determine the appropriate next steps.” The Mueller investigation was closed without Mr. Trump ever sitting for a formal interview. The president’s lawyers were fearful of what he might say under penalty of perjury, and did not want him to sit for one. They anticipated that Mr. Mueller would not engage in a protracted battle to try to subpoena the president, and Mr. Mueller never did. The investigators did receive written answers to questions. Among those traveling with Mr. Trump to Florida aboard Air Force One on Friday was the new White House counsel, Pat Cipollone. The counsel’s office anticipates reviewing the report for possible issues related to executive privilege. With the delivery of the report looming, in Florida, at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump and his top aides stuck to business as usual: meeting with five Caribbean leaders, placing a phone call to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and, of course, tweeting. But a sense of anxiety loomed, and Mr. Trump’s Twitter posts added to the confusion on a day in which everyone around Mr. Trump was bracing for the end of the Russia investigation and what it might mean for his presidency. A confusing tweet by Mr. Trump at 1:22 p.m. seemed to roll back sanctions on North Korea, undermining his Treasury secretary, although later in the day, officials tried to clarify that Mr. Trump was talking about sanctions that were under consideration but not yet announced. Aides were waiting to see what language Mr. Mueller’s team used in the report about the president’s actions before pushing ahead with a more vocal response. Mr. Trump has said that the report should be made public. But lawmakers are not relying on him.  In a joint statement, the two top Democrats in Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said that “it is imperative for Mr. Barr to make the full report public and provide its underlying documentation and findings to Congress. Attorney General Barr must not give President Trump, his lawyers or his staff any ‘sneak preview’ of Special Counsel Mueller’s findings or evidence, and the White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public.” Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, echoed that sentiment.  “Congress and the American people deserve to judge the facts for themselves,” Mr. Warner said. “The special counsel’s report must be provided to Congress immediately, and the attorney general should swiftly prepare a declassified version of the report for the public. Nothing short of that will suffice.” He pointedly added, “Any attempt by the Trump administration to cover up the results of this investigation into Russia’s attack on our democracy would be unacceptable.” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, stopped short of calling for full disclosure. “I will work with Ranking Member Feinstein and our House Judiciary Committee colleagues to ensure as much transparency as possible, consistent with the law,” he said. Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, according to a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec. Justice Department officials notified the White House about 20 minutes before telling lawmakers, Ms. Kupec said.  A security officer from the special counsel’s office delivered the report to the deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, on Friday afternoon, and it was handed off to Mr. Barr within minutes. After top officials looked through the report, Mr. Barr’s chief of staff, Brian Rabbitt, called Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer representing the president in the Russia investigation, just after 4:30 p.m. to let him know that the department had the report. While the White House was not given the report, Mr. Rabbitt gave Mr. Flood a readout of the letter that would be delivered to Congress. The letter included important details, including the fact that Mr. Barr’s summary of Mr. Mueller’s key findings be sent to legislators as early as Sunday evening. It also said that there were no instances when Mr. Rosenstein, the former acting attorney general, Matthew P. Whitaker, or Mr. Barr told Mr. Mueller that he could not pursue an investigative action. The Justice Department said that the investigation was complete and that any department lawyers who were working on Mr. Mueller’s team would return to their positions. A small number of special counsel staff will remain on, to assist in closing the operations of the special counsel’s office. And Mr. Mueller himself will remain the special counsel as loose ends are tied up.   Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding that the special counsel’s finding be made public immediately — and trying to build up their electronic lists of supporters by blasting out email about the report. With no detailed information available about the report, Senators Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Mr. Barr would release it. “Attorney General Barr — release the Mueller report to the American public. Now,” Senator Warren wrote on Twitter. “I am demanding the Mueller report be made immediately available for members of Congress and for the public. Anything short of full transparency will be detrimental to our country moving forward,” Senator Booker tweeted. “Special counsel Mueller’s report should be made public without any delay,” Senator Gillibrand said. She also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: “See you Sunday.” That’s when Ms. Gillibrand is planning to formally kick off her campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York. Senator Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released “immediately,” called on Attorney General Barr to “publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings.” And Senators Harris and Warren emailed supporters to sign their petitions calling for the report’s immediate release. Five additional candidates — Senators Amy Klobuchar and Bernie Sanders; former Representatives Beto O’Rourke and John Delaney; and Julián Castro — also called for the release of the full report. “As Donald Trump said, ‘Let it come out,’” Senator Sanders wrote on Twitter. “I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Mueller’s full report public as soon as possible. No one, including the president, is above the law.” Since the investigation began, Americans have been guessing about what, if anything, Mr. Mueller would uncover. Mr. Trump has used an all-purpose shorthand to describe his view of the inquiry: “witch hunt.”  James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was fired by Mr. Trump for his role in the investigation, in Op-Ed published Thursday in The New York Times, urged the country to look at the inquiry in a different way, beyond partisan politics. “I am rooting for a demonstration to the world — and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers — that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism,” he wrote. Throughout Friday, journalists waited anxiously for word of the delivery of the special counsel report to Mr. Barr. Cable news pundits and anchors filled airtime with speculations about whether the report would land on Friday and what it might say.  Then, just after 5 p.m., news came that the report had been delivered — without any hint about what it actually said. A CBS anchor broke into postgame coverage of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament to inform viewers about the report’s arrival. On CNN, Wolf Blitzer read aloud from a printout of the letter that Mr. Barr had sent to members of Congress. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Many Democrats, notably Ms. Pelosi, have played down the prospect of bringing impeachment proceedings against the president.  But several House committees have started investigations into the president’s possible connection to Russia, the role of several members of his family may have played, and a broad menu of other matters, including his personal finances. The Mueller investigation has had many plotlines, crossing oceans and delivering indictments. It can be confusing to keep track of it all. Take a look at this story to help sort it out. Here is what we know so far. Mr. Trump has been trying to lay the predicate for undermining the report. On Wednesday he said of Mr. Mueller, “But it’s sort of interesting that a man, out of the blue, just writes a report.” Mr. Mueller did not randomly or arbitrarily decide to write a report. It is mandated by regulations on the appointment of a special counsel. “At the conclusion of the special counsel’s work, he or she shall provide the attorney general with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the special counsel,” the regulations say. Then, in an interview aired on Fox on Friday, he went on to question the authority of the Justice Department to render a judgment on an elected official. “Well, it’s always interesting to me because a deputy that didn’t get any votes appoints a man that didn’t get any votes — he’s going to write a report on me,” Mr. Trump said. “Comey’s his best friend.” The special counsel role is not an elected office, but the same can be said of the attorney general, deputy attorney general, or hundreds of other top officials serving in the government. Special counsels appointments occur when a potential conflict of interest arises from the executive branch of government investigating itself. Mr. Mueller was appointed by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who was in turn nominated by Mr. Trump. James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, has denied that he is “best friends” with Mr. Mueller, and Mr. Comey’s lawyer has said the two men are friendly colleagues, but “don’t really have a personal relationship.” (Mr. Barr, however, has said that he and Mr. Mueller are personal friends.) The senior prosecutor who led the case against Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, announced Friday that he would leave his job as deputy United States attorney in Manhattan. Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to making hush payments to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. The case, which has the potential to threaten Mr. Trump’s presidency, is separate from the special counsel investigation and will continue. Maggie Astor, Katie Benner, David Enrich, Carl Hulse, Maggie Haberman, Linda Qiu, Michael S. Schmidt and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.  Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc  Eileen Sullivan is the morning breaking news correspondent in Washington. She previously worked for The Associated Press for a decade, covering national security and criminal justice.  @esullivannyt ", "id": "5c95544849f0eacbf105e95b", "date": "2019-03-22T21:30:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What if the Mueller Report Demands Bold Action?", "full_text": " If Mueller’s findings compel legal action, the attorney general should reconsider the policy against indictment of a sitting president.  Mr. Smith served as executive assistant to Attorney General Elliot Richardson in 1973. Reports that Robert Mueller will soon issue the findings of his investigation have brought a new urgency to the question of whether, assuming sufficient evidence exists, a president can be indicted while in office. Most people take for granted that both Mr. Mueller and the new attorney general, William Barr, accept the current Justice Department legal position — reached in a 2000 opinion — that a sitting president cannot be indicted. In a June 2018 memo, Mr. Barr said that under “the Framers’ plan,” the “proper mechanism for policing the president’s” actions “is the political process — that is, the People, acting either directly, or through their elected representatives in Congress.” Yet since 1973, the Justice Department has revisited its position five times on the question of indicting a sitting president and reached different conclusions. In fact, as executive assistant to President Richard Nixon’s attorney general, Elliot Richardson, I can speak to the circumstances that delivered that first opinion: The principal purpose of the 1973 Watergate-era legal opinion — which concluded that a sitting president cannot be indicted — was to aid in removal from office of a criminally tainted vice president, who, the memo concluded, could be indicted.  But it was not intended to set an ironclad precedent that would forever shape how a president might be treated.  My experience makes me believe that Attorney General Barr should reconsider Justice Department policy. If the evidence gathered by the Mueller investigation on the actions of the president and his advisers indicates a crime, an indictment might be the proper course to hold the president accountable. Further, the indictment policy does not stand in isolation: It has repercussions for a Mueller report and access to it for Congress and the American public. The durability of the Office of Legal Counsel’s 1973 opinion is curious. It was prepared under extraordinarily stressful and unique circumstances — borne from the investigations that led to the resignations of Vice President Spiro Agnew that year and President Nixon in 1974. In 1973, Vice President Agnew faced a grand jury investigation, mostly stemming from his tenure as governor of Maryland, into alleged bribery, extortion and tax evasion. Mr. Agnew resisted pressure to resign. Attorney General Richardson sought guidance on the indictment question in an effort to bring pressure on the vice president. When the legal opinion was written, it was a very close question and was ultimately shaped by Mr. Richardson’s goal to remove the vice president from his office. The Office of Legal Counsel determined “there is no express provision in the Constitution which confers such immunity upon the President,” even though Article I, Section 6 provides for limited immunity for members of the legislature. (It also said, in reaching its conclusion, that there were “a number of policy factors that weigh heavily against” indicting a sitting president.) Following the determination on vice presidents, Mr. Richardson obtained the indictment of Mr. Agnew, and rather than face a prolonged legal battle, the vice president pleaded no contest and resigned in 1973. An often-overlooked facet of the Agnew case — but highly relevant to our circumstances today — was Mr. Richardson’s insistence that the vice president’s resignation and plea on a single count be accompanied by an extraordinary, publicly available 40-page summary of the criminal behavior involving Mr. Agnew that the Justice Department was prepared to prove at trial. Mr. Richardson believed, correctly, that a full recounting of Mr. Agnew’s shameful behavior would put to rest any contention by his supporters that he had been made a political victim. Ten days after Mr. Agnew’s resignation, though, Mr. Richardson himself resigned, as part of the events leading up to the Saturday Night Massacre. In an effort to end the Watergate investigation, Mr. Nixon called for the firing of Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox. Mr. Richardson and Deputy Attorney General William Ruckelshaus both resigned rather than carry out that order. Mr. Richardson, Mr. Cox and their successors also insisted upon access to White House evidence. They deeply appreciated the right and responsibility of Congress to exercise reasonable stewardship regarding the behavior of leadership of the executive branch. Mr. Mueller’s investigation has brought us to face similar questions of institutional integrity and transparency for the American public. If Mr. Barr determines that Mr. Mueller’s findings compel legal action, he should reconsider the policy against indictment of a sitting president. But if Mr. Barr holds to the view that a president’s actions should be policed by the political and not criminal process, it will be imperative that he share a Mueller report with Congress and, to the extent practicable, with the public, redacting only information that is classified or otherwise prohibited by statute. In light of the gravity of our circumstances, it would be timely and appropriate for the Justice Department to reconsider the shaky policy regarding indictability of a sitting president and provide Congress and the public with the Mr. Mueller’s full findings and conclusions. Only through sunlight and transparency can we preserve confidence in our national institutions and leadership. J.T. Smith II served as executive assistant to Attorney General Elliot Richardson in 1973. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c80fa1249f0eacbf105bcec", "date": "2019-03-07T11:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Ups His Attacks With Mueller Report Due Thursday", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The president isn't waiting. As Washington counts down the final hours until publication of the redacted special counsel report — now expected Thursday — Donald Trump stepped up his attacks Monday in an effort to undermine potential disclosures on Russia, his 2016 campaign and the aftermath. He unleashed a series of tweets focusing on the previously released summary of special counsel Robert Mueller's conclusions — including a crucial one on obstruction of justice that Trump again misrepresented — produced by Attorney General William Barr. \"Mueller, and the A.G. based on Mueller findings (and great intelligence), have already ruled No Collusion, No Obstruction,\" Trump tweeted. \"These were crimes committed by Crooked Hillary, the DNC, Dirty Cops and others! INVESTIGATE THE INVESTIGATORS!\" Press Secretary Sarah Sanders repeatedly tried to make the same case on TV talk shows on Sunday. But the political battle is far from finished over the special counsel's investigation of Russian efforts to help Trump in 2016 and whether there was cooperation with his campaign. Democrats are calling for Mueller himself to testify before Congress and have expressed concern that Barr will order unnecessary censoring of the report to protect the president. The House Judiciary Committee, led by Rep. Jerry Nadler of New York, is poised to try to compel Barr to turn over an unredacted copy as well as the report's underlying investigative files. The Justice Department announced Monday that it expects to release the redacted version Thursday morning, sending the findings of the nearly two-year probe to Congress and making them available to the public. Mueller officially concluded his investigation late last month and submitted the confidential report to Barr. Two days later, the attorney general sent Congress a four-page letter that detailed Mueller's \"principal conclusions.\" In his letter, Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign. However, contrary to Trump's false claim, Mueller did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of that question. Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice, but he noted that Mueller's team did not exonerate the president. Portions of the report being released by the Justice Department will be redacted to protect grand jury material, sensitive intelligence, matters that could affect ongoing investigations and damage to the privacy rights of third parties, the attorney general has said. The scores of outstanding questions about the investigation have not stopped the president and his allies from declaring victory. They have painted House Democrats' investigations as partisan overreach and have targeted news outlets and individual reporters they say have promoted the collusion story. The president himself seethed at a political rally that the whole thing was an attempt \"to tear up the fabric of our great democracy.\" He has told confidants in recent days that he was certain the full report would back up his claims of vindication but was also convinced the media would manipulate the findings in an effort to damage him, according to two Republicans close to the White House not authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. In the waiting game's final days, the White House continued to try to shape the narrative. \"There was no obstruction, which I don't how you can interpret that any other way than total exoneration,\" press secretary Sanders said on \"Fox News Sunday.\" While the president unleashed his personal grievances, his team seized on any exculpatory information in Barr's letter, hoping to define the conversation in advance, according to White House officials and outside advisers who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss private deliberations. The victory lap was deliberately premature, they said. But Trump's inner circle knows there will likely be further releases of embarrassing or politically damaging information. Barr's letter, for instance, hinted that there would be at least one unknown action by the president that Mueller examined as a possible act of obstruction. A number of White House aides have privately said they are eager for all Russia stories, good or bad, to fade from the headlines. And there is fear among some presidential confidants that the rush to spike the football in celebration could backfire if bombshell new information emerges. Trump and his allies also continue to attack the origins of the Russia investigation, portraying it as an effort by Democrats and career officials in the Justice Department to bring him down. \"The Mueller Report, which was written by 18 Angry Democrats who also happen to be Trump Haters (and Clinton Supporters), should have focused on the people who SPIED on my 2016 Campaign, and others who fabricated the whole Russia Hoax. That is, never forget, the crime.\" Trump tweeted Monday. His long-asserted accusation — though not supported by evidence — that his campaign was spied upon was given new life last week when Barr, testifying before Congress, said he thinks \"spying did occur\" in 2016. Barr may have been referring to a surveillance warrant the FBI obtained in the fall of 2016 to monitor the communications of former Trump campaign aide Carter Page, who has not been charged with any wrongdoing. The warrant was obtained after Page had left the campaign and was renewed several times. Critics of the Russia investigation have seized on the fact that the warrant application cited Democratic-funded opposition research, done by a former British spy, into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia. Barr later softened his tone to \"I am not saying improper surveillance occurred.\" The attorney general's comments have frustrated Democrats, already anxious for the release of the full, uncensored report and concerned that Barr may withhold pertinent information. The report could provide new information that could prompt further investigations or even consideration of impeachment proceedings, a tricky political calculation since Mueller did not conclude there was collusion or obstruction. The Russia probe began on July 31, 2016, when the FBI opened a counterintelligence investigation into Russia's efforts to influence the presidential campaign and whether anyone on the Trump campaign was involved. That probe was prompted by former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos' contacts with Russian intermediaries, including a Maltese professor who told the young aide that the Russians had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form of emails. ___ Lemire reported from New York. Associated Press writer Chad Day contributed. ___ Follow Lemire on Twitter at http://twitter.com/@JonLemire and Balsamo at http://twitter.com/@MikeBalsamo1 .", "id": "5cb4abd949f0eacbf1f8439c", "date": "2019-04-15T16:04:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Confidant Roger Stone Seeks Full Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's longtime confidant, Roger Stone, asked a federal judge Friday to compel the Justice Department to turn over a full copy of special counsel Robert Mueller's report on the Russia investigation as part of discovery in his criminal case. Stone has pleaded not guilty to charges he lied to Congress, engaged in witness tampering and obstructed a congressional investigation into possible coordination between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. In a court filing late Friday night, his lawyers said Stone is entitled to see the confidential report — which was submitted to the attorney general late last month — because it would help prove their allegation that there are constitutional issues with the investigation. In a separate action, a former aide to Stone who was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury asked a federal appeals court to determine whether he still needs to testify now that the Russia probe has concluded. Stone's team also filed motions Friday night arguing he was selectively prosecuted, challenging the constitutionality of Mueller's appointment and that the special counsel didn't have the ability to prosecute him for lying to Congress. They allege that Congress did not formally make a referral to the Justice Department about Stone's testimony and because of that, Mueller's investigation was \"a violation of the separation of powers.\" In court documents, the lawyers argue they are entitled to a private disclosure of the nearly 400-page report that Mueller submitted to Attorney General William Barr late last month and said they \"must be allowed to review the Report in its entirety because it contains the government's evidence and conclusions on matters essential to Stone's defense.\" \"To be clear, Stone is not requesting the Report be disclosed to the world - only to his counsel so that it may aid in preparing his defense,\" the lawyers wrote. Stone, who is set to go on trial in November, has maintained his innocence and blasted the special counsel's investigation as politically motivated. He has pleaded not guilty to the charges, which stem from conversations he had during the campaign about WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that released material stolen from Democratic groups, including Hillary Clinton's campaign. In a four-page letter to Congress that detailed Mueller's \"principal conclusions,\" Barr said the special counsel did not find a criminal conspiracy between Russia and Trump associates during the campaign, but did not reach a definitive conclusion on whether Trump obstructed justice. Instead, Mueller presented evidence on both sides of the obstruction question, but Barr said he did not believe the evidence was sufficient to prove that Trump had obstructed justice. Barr has said he expects to release a redacted version of Mueller's report next week that will be sent to Congress and made public. In the separate case, Andrew Miller, a former Stone aide, filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia over the subpoena he was issued in Mueller's investigation. Last year, Mueller's team sought Miller's testimony regarding Stone, WikiLeaks and the Russian government-controlled online persona Guccifer 2.0, which was used to release hacked material during the 2016 election. But Miller challenged his grand jury subpoena, arguing that Mueller's appointment was unconstitutional. Earlier this year a three-judge panel of the court upheld the special counsel's appointment and a contempt order intended to force Miller to testify. In the new petition, Miller's attorney, Paul Kamenar, argued that the matter now appears to be moot because Stone has been indicted and like \"Cinderella's carriage that turned into a pumpkin at midnight, special counsel Mueller's authority expired.\" Kamenar is now asking the court to have the government formally say whether it will still pursue Miller's testimony. If that's the case, Kamenar is asking for a rehearing of the case. He said in a statement that he will take the fight to the Supreme Court if necessary. ___ Read the petition: http://apne.ws/rQRdegR", "id": "5cb13b7749f0eacbf1f83a01", "date": "2019-04-13T01:27:57+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Will Be Released Within a Week: U.S. Attorney General", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr told lawmakers on Tuesday that he intends to release \"within a week\" a redacted version of the long-awaited report on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election from Special Counsel Robert Mueller. During a congressional hearing, Barr was repeatedly challenged by Democrats who raised suspicions that he may have misrepresented Mueller's report to paint the Republican president in a better light. Barr, an appointee of Trump who last month announced what he said were the main findings of the report, said he would be as open as possible about redactions of sensitive information when he hands over the full document. \"Within a week I will be in position to release that report to the public and then I will engage with the chairmen of both judiciary committees about that report, about any further requests that they have,\" Barr said at his first appearance before Congress since receiving the report on March 22. \"I don't intend at this stage to send the full unredacted report to the committee,\" Barr told a House of Representatives Appropriations subcommittee. \"I am relying on my own discretion to make as much public as I can.\" Tuesday's hearing came a little more than two weeks after Mueller wrapped up a 22-month-long probe into whether members of Trump's campaign colluded with Russia during the White House race and if he obstructed official inquiries into the matter. The impending release of the 400-page report is expected to shed light on some of the more contentious episodes of Trump's election bid and presidency, including his firing of FBI head James Comey in 2017 and his campaign's contacts with Russians.  The investigation, which Trump has repeatedly called a witch hunt, ensnared 34 people and three companies, including some members of Trump's inner circle such as his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.  In a March 24 letter to Congress, Barr said that Mueller's investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia. He also said that Mueller presented evidence \"on both sides\" about whether Trump obstructed justice, but he did not draw a conclusion one way or the other. Barr said that he reviewed Mueller's evidence and made his own determination that Trump should not face obstruction charges. The lack of details in Barr's letter, his decision not to charge Trump and his refusal to release the report in full without redactions has angered Democrats, who fear he may be sugar coating Mueller's findings. REDACTION Redacted official documents or reports typically have sections blacked out to protect sensitive information.  Barr gave no indication of how much of the report will be obscured but said he was working with Mueller on restricting details about secret grand jury information, U.S. intelligence gathering and ongoing criminal cases as well as potentially damaging information about peripheral players who were not charged in the Russia probe.  To be transparent about what would be redacted, he told lawmakers he intends to \"color code the excisions from the report\" and provide \"explanatory notes describing the basis for each redaction.\" Barr left open the possibility that some members of Congress would be allowed to review secret information from the report in a safe setting. \"I can envision a situation where under appropriate safeguards, that information can be shared,\" Barr said. \"I also think under appropriate safeguards, there is a way of people verifying these categories (of redactions) were not abused.\"  Democrats repeatedly criticized Barr for his handling of the report, including taking it upon himself in the letter to decide that Trump should not be charged with obstruction of justice. Nita Lowey, chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, said Barr's letter summarizing the Mueller report appears to \"cherry-pick from the report to draw the most favorable conclusion possible for the president.\" \"In many ways, your letter raises more questions than it answers,\" she added. The New York Times and the Washington Post reported last week that some investigators on Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr described their findings. The reports said that some of the evidence against Trump was more damning than Barr's letter indicated. Barr said he did not have insight into why some on Mueller's team were upset. \"I suspect that they probably wanted more put out,\" he said. Barr said he did not offer to let Mueller help draft his four-page March 24 letter to Congress on the conclusions of the special counsel's investigation. Asked why, Barr said, \"Because it was my letter.\" He said the White House did not review the letter to Congress laying out Mueller's findings before he sent it. Last week, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee prepared subpoenas that they plan to issue to the Justice Department if Barr does not agree to release the Mueller report in full.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Alistair Bell)", "id": "5cac742c49f0eacbf1f81cd6", "date": "2019-04-09T10:28:35+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: The Mueller Report’s Findings", "full_text": " Good Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • The investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III found that neither President Trump nor any of his aides conspired or coordinated with the Russian government’s 2016 election interference, according to a summary of the findings by Attorney General William P. Barr. (Read the four-page summary here.) • The special counsel reached no conclusion on the charge of obstruction of justice, writing that “while this report does not conclude that the president committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him.” So Mr. Barr, whom Mr. Trump installed less than a month ago, pronounced the president clear of committing any criminal offense. • Mr. Trump, who has long felt victimized by the Russia investigation, presented Mr. Barr’s statements as an unalloyed victory. “It was a complete and total exoneration.” • Democrats in Congress seized on the apparent discrepancy over the obstruction of justice charge, vowing to push forward with investigations into every aspect of the presidency and demanding access to the full report of the special counsel. • News analysis by Peter Baker: Sunday may have been the best day of Mr. Trump’s tenure so far, as the special counsel’s findings undercut the threat of impeachment and provided the president with a powerful boost for the final 22 months of his term — and possibly for the 2020 election. • How did the 2020 Democratic candidates react to the attorney general’s letter? “I don’t want a summary of the Mueller report,” Senator Bernie Sanders said. “I want the whole damn report.” • In the official kickoff for her 2020 campaign, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand held a rally outside a Trump-branded hotel in Manhattan, calling the president a “coward.” • This year’s conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, came at a particularly charged time, as Democrats wrestle with the left’s rising criticism of Israel. • Republicans are pushing multiple bills aimed at combating anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language, part of a larger political strategy to win over Jewish voters and fracture Democrats on a vulnerable issue. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c98c35c49f0eacbf105ee3a", "date": "2019-03-25T12:01:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Did Cohen Give a Peek at the Mueller Report?", "full_text": " The special counsel is still hiding events that lie at the core of his investigation — events that involve the president directly.  Ms. Wheeler writes about national security at the website Emptywheel. Even before Michael Cohen appeared before the House Oversight Committee to begin testifying Wednesday, he delivered explosive new information. Several days before WikiLeaks published Democratic National Committee emails on July 22, 2016, Roger Stone called Donald Trump and — on a speaker phone that permitted Mr. Cohen to hear — told the presidential candidate that “he had just gotten off the phone with Julian Assange,” who told him that “within a couple of days, there would be a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.” According to Mr. Cohen, the president expressed happiness about the prospect “to the effect of ‘Wouldn’t that be great.’” The detail is remarkable not just because it undercuts the president’s claims that Mr. Stone never provided him such details. It’s also a testament to how much critical information the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has kept hidden even in the most provocative of his “speaking indictments.” Even after months of investigation and voluminous indictments and sentencing memos, he’s still hiding events that lie at the core of his investigative mandate — events that involve the president directly. With virtually every charging document in the Russia investigation, Mr. Mueller’s team has provided far more detail than necessary and, in the process, sketched out the framework of what the investigators found. The description of the lies of a former campaign adviser, George Papadopoulos, disclosed that the campaign first learned Russians were planning to dump emails from Mrs. Clinton in April 2016, before the Democrats figured out they had been hacked. Even as Russians were dangling those emails, another filing from Mr. Mueller shows, other Russians were pitching a ridiculously lucrative real estate deal that depended on the involvement of President Vladimir Putin. Indeed, that same filing revealed that Mr. Cohen took steps to travel to St. Petersburg, possibly to meet with Mr. Putin, around the same time that Donald Trump Jr. met with Russians asking for sanctions relief. Mr. Mueller’s description of Michael Flynn’s lies explained how Mr. Flynn persuaded the Russians to hold off on any response to President Barack Obama’s imposition of sanctions in retaliation for Russia’s election interference. Each of those documents nods to Mr. Trump’s involvement. The document charging Mr. Papadopoulos, the foreign policy adviser, describes how he announced he was trying to set up a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. The Flynn document explains how his deputy, K.T. McFarland, closely orchestrated what Mr. Flynn would say in his calls with Russia’s ambassador at a time Ms. McFarland was reported to be at the president’s Mar-a-Lago resort. Mr. Cohen’s charging document even describes the president himself as Individual-1, the kind of language often used to describe co-conspirators. But Mr. Stone’s heads-up to Mr. Trump — and his enthusiastic response — went unmentioned in the indictment filed in January. Certainly, the fact that Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump of the forthcoming WikiLeaks email dump is consistent with an oblique line in his indictment. “By in or around June and July 2016,” the description of Stone’s lies explained, “Stone informed senior Trump Campaign officials that he had information indicating Organization 1 had documents whose release would be damaging to the Clinton Campaign.” But that line didn’t disclose the most important bits of Mr. Cohen’s revelation: that among the “senior Trump Campaign officials” with whom Mr. Stone had discussed WikiLeaks’ forthcoming dumps was the candidate himself. Nor does it disclose the timing of this particular disclosure, which Mr. Cohen in his testimony recalled happened on July 18 or 19. That’s significant not just because Mr. Stone predicted the timing of the release, just days away, as he would later predict details of the release of John Podesta’s emails. But it lines up eerily with a line in the indictment of 12 officers in a Russian intelligence organization, the G.R.U., who conducted the hack of the D.N.C. That document says that on July 18, WikiLeaks informed the G.R.U. online persona, Guccifer 2.0, that it had received a one-gigabyte archive “and would make a release of the stolen documents ‘this week.’” In other words, Mr. Cohen’s revelation suggests that Mr. Stone was learning of WikiLeaks’ plans in the same time frame as the G.R.U. itself learned them.  None of that changes the substance of the lies that Mr. Mueller alleges Mr. Stone told, about communicating repeatedly with WikiLeaks through intermediaries to learn about and try to influence the release of stolen documents. But it is one indication that even Mr. Mueller’s often expansive charging documents are most interesting for their silences. Mr. Mueller’s public filings have laid out a broad framework showing that Russians dangled a real estate deal and dirt on Hillary Clinton while asking for a range of sanctions relief. If Mr. Mueller were to charge this quid pro quo as a conspiracy or describe it as one in a report, it wouldn’t matter whether Mr. Trump knew of all the events that furthered the conspiracy. Because of the way conspiracy law works, it’s enough to show that Mr. Trump willingly entered into the conspiracy and took overt acts to pursue its objectives.  As Mr. Cohen’s testimony illustrates, Mr. Mueller has been hiding examples where Mr. Trump did applaud the conspiracy. “Wouldn’t that be great,” he reportedly said just before the fruits of Russia’s theft would start to do real damage to Democratic fortunes. If Mr. Mueller is hiding similar examples, it suggests that whatever he plans to release in a report may have some unanticipated bombshells. Marcy Wheeler (@emptywheel) writes about national security at the website Emptywheel. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c780b8149f0eacbf105aacf", "date": "2019-02-28T16:24:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Big Question: What’s in the Mueller Report?", "full_text": " letters The special counsel delivers his findings, as the world waits to find out what they are. To the Editor: Re “Mueller Delivers Findings on Trump-Russia Inquiry” (nytimes.com, March 22): After nearly two years of intense scrutiny, secrecy, multiple indictments, guilty pleas and convictions, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has delivered his report to Attorney General William Barr.  This has arguably been the most significant investigation into possible criminal behavior by a president and his administration in American history, and we are told that Mr. Barr could deliver the Mueller report to Congress as early as this weekend. What Congress and the public will see is entirely up to the attorney general, but the fact that the report will soon be given to Congress is cause for hopefulness for millions of Americans, and at the same time a potential nightmare for Donald Trump. While I believe that this president is guilty of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and other impeachable or indictable crimes, if the Mueller report finds that Mr. Trump is not guilty of these crimes, so be it. Mr. Mueller is to be commended for his work as the special counsel who has conducted a historic investigation into Russian meddling in our election, and into who may or may not have colluded and conspired with the Russians during the 2016 campaign. Well done, Mr. Mueller. You have once again served your country with honor and dignity. Henry A. LowensteinNew York To the Editor: Re “My Hope for the Mueller Report,” by James Comey (Op-Ed, March 22): It is the substance of the Mueller report that will be all-important, not the mere process. In other words, if Donald Trump or others acting with even his tacit consent conspired with the Russian government to corrupt our election process, or if this president has acted to obstruct the process in getting to the truth, and the report fails to pin down such misdeeds, justice will not have been done. If we are merely left to continue to wonder, the nation will remain as deeply divided as it now appears to be. Of course, other issues concerning this president remain no matter what the Mueller report concludes from its underlying investigation. The conflicts of interest that engulf this presidency and its seemingly unending divisive nature are issues that remain for Congress and the rest of us. The Trump presidency is like a classroom hypothetical of what can go wrong with our government and the speed with which it can happen. One thing Mr. Trump was right about: If Jeff Sessions had not recused himself in his role as attorney general from investigating the 2016 election, we might never have had a special counsel, and a complicit Republican Congress would have buried the entire matter. That is an “if” that should make us feel nervous about our system of justice. Bruce NeumanWater Mill, N.Y. To the Editor: Thank you for publishing James Comey’s Op-Ed. His perspective is exactly how I feel. Every American citizen and the rest of the world need and deserve to see the Mueller report. Like Mr. Comey, I do not wish for impeachment, but rather a refusal by our citizens to support a man who is unfit to lead, lies without conscience, ignores the rule of law and undermines our system of justice. James P. GhiglioneLopez Island, Wash.", "id": "5c95368c49f0eacbf105e8fe", "date": "2019-03-22T19:23:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "White House and Justice Dept. Officials Discussed Mueller Report Before Release", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Not all of Robert S. Mueller III’s findings will be news to President Trump when they are released Thursday morning. Justice Department officials have had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the conclusions made by Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, in recent days, according to people with knowledge of the discussions. The talks have aided the president’s legal team as it prepares a rebuttal to the report and strategizes for the coming public war over its findings. A sense of paranoia is taking hold among some of Mr. Trump’s aides, some of whom fear his backlash more than the findings themselves, the people said. The report might make clear which of Mr. Trump’s current and former advisers spoke to the special counsel, how much they said and how much damage they did to the president — providing a kind of road map for retaliation. The discussions between Justice Department officials and White House lawyers have also added to questions about the propriety of the decisions by Attorney General William P. Barr since he received Mr. Mueller’s findings late last month. Mr. Barr and his deputy, Rod J. Rosenstein, determined that Mr. Trump did not illegally obstruct justice and said the special counsel found no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia’s 2016 election interference. Mr. Barr told lawmakers that officials were “spying” on the Trump campaign, raised ominous historical parallels with the illegal surveillance of Vietnam War protesters and pointedly declined to rebut charges that Mr. Mueller’s investigators were engaged in a “witch hunt.” Spokespeople for the White House and the Justice Department declined to comment. Mr. Barr, who plans to hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. Thursday to discuss the special counsel’s report, refused to answer questions from lawmakers last week about whether the department had given the White House a preview of Mr. Mueller’s findings. Much is at stake for Mr. Barr in Thursday’s expected release, especially if the report presents a far more damning portrayal of the president’s behavior — and of his campaign’s dealings with Russians — than the attorney general indicated in the four-page letter he wrote in March. That letter generated anger among some members of Mr. Mueller’s team, who believed it failed to adequately portray the findings of their inquiry and have told associates that the report was more troubling for Mr. Trump than Mr. Barr indicated. Justice Department rules do not require Mr. Barr to make the special counsel’s report public, and the attorney general’s defenders say he will fulfill pledges of transparency he made during his confirmation hearings to make as much of the document public as possible. Even a redacted report is likely to answer some of the outstanding questions about Russia’s attempts to sabotage the election; contacts between Kremlin intermediaries and the Trump campaign; and the president’s efforts to derail the investigation. The information that Justice Department officials have provided to the White House could potentially be valuable for Mr. Trump’s legal team as it finalizes a rebuttal to the Mueller report — expected to be released not long after the department makes the special counsel’s findings public. Advisers to Mr. Trump insist that they still do not know many details about Mr. Mueller’s conclusions. The president’s aides have devised a strategy where numerous lawyers and political aides will quickly read different parts of the document to develop a rebuttal strategy, according to multiple people briefed on the plan. The recent conversations between the Justice Department and the White House were first reported by ABC News. Democrats on Capitol Hill, armed with subpoena power and deeply mistrustful of Mr. Barr’s motivations since he was first nominated, have pressed for more and believe they could soon have the upper hand. They have already demanded the full text of the report and access to the underlying evidence they say is necessary for continuing congressional inquiries into foreign influence and obstruction of justice. The House Judiciary Committee has already authorized a subpoena for its chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, to try to force Mr. Barr to hand that material over to Congress. Democrats involved in the planning say the subpoena could be sent to the Justice Department within a day of the redacted report’s delivery if Mr. Barr has withheld material the committee deems necessary for its work. Promising more transparency, the government said it would let a select group of lawmakers see some of the material related to the case against Roger J. Stone Jr. that had been redacted from the initial public version of the report, according to a filing on Wednesday in the Stone case. Mr. Stone was indicted in January for lying to federal prosecutors, witness tampering and trying to obstruct the special counsel’s investigation. Representative David Cicilline, Democrat of Rhode Island and a member of the Judiciary Committee, said on Wednesday that he has little doubt that Mr. Barr is trying to “insulate” Mr. Trump. “He has demonstrated that he understands loyalty to the president, rather than an oath to the Constitution,” Mr. Cicilline said, before comparing Mr. Barr to Roy Cohn, one of Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyers known for his fierce efforts to protect his boss. “The president said, ‘I want to have my own Roy Cohn,’ and he may have found him.” Democrats in recent weeks have accelerated investigations of the president, his campaign, businesses and administration, issuing a flurry of subpoenas and voluntary requests that could aid their work. They intend to incorporate whatever they glean from Thursday’s report into those investigations, which they argue Congress has its own constitutional duty to conduct regardless of Mr. Barr’s conclusion. Doing so could also allow party leaders to cool any potential heat within the party to initiate impeachment proceedings against the president — a possibility Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has repeatedly said would be politically unwise, absent startling new evidence of wrongdoing. Democrats concede that the real challenge will be to persuade Republicans and the broader public to keep focused on a case that the attorney general weeks ago essentially declared was closed. The special counsel’s examination of whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice focused on whether the president used his position atop the executive branch to impede the Russia investigation. Mr. Mueller’s team examined Mr. Trump’s effort to end an investigation into his first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, and oust law enforcement officials — like the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey — who Mr. Trump believed were disloyal. Mr. Mueller also closely scrutinized Mr. Trump’s attempt in June 2017 to have Mr. Mueller removed. A key witness in the obstruction investigation was the former White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II, who spent more than 30 hours with Mr. Mueller’s team. Mr. McGahn explained in detail how Mr. Trump tried to gain control over the investigation. Mr. Trump’s legal team never thoroughly debriefed Mr. McGahn’s lawyer about what his client told investigators, leaving the president’s lawyers in the dark about what Mr. McGahn said. In recent weeks, White House officials have grown increasingly concerned about what Mr. McGahn told the Mueller team and believe his statements could be used in the report to paint a damning portrait of the president, two people close to the White House said. Republicans have seized on Mr. Barr’s decision to clear the president of criminal obstruction of justice and plan to try to reinvigorate their own inquiries into decision making inside the Justice Department and the F.B.I. in 2016 that prompted law enforcement officials to open the Russia investigation. Mr. Barr gave ammunition to those efforts last week, when he described law enforcement surveillance of the Trump campaign as “spying.” The remark reinforced a narrative long pushed by Mr. Trump and his allies in Congress — that a “deep state” tried to prevent a Mr. Trump from becoming president and has tried to undo his presidency. Mr. Barr’s comments sent shudders through law enforcement ranks and surprised many who saw him as a stabilizing force whose instincts would be to protect the Justice Department from political attacks — unlike former Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Matthew G. Whitaker, who held the job in an acting capacity after the president forced out Mr. Sessions. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5cb78f9449f0eacbf1f85141", "date": "2019-04-17T20:40:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "White House, Justice Department Officials Discussed Mueller Report: Media", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Justice Department officials had numerous conversations in recent days with White House lawyers about the conclusions of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, the New York Times and ABC News reported on Wednesday. Mueller on March 22 submitted his report to U.S. Attorney General William Barr on his investigation into whether the campaign of Republican Donald Trump worked with Moscow to sway the election in his favor, and whether President Trump committed obstruction of justice with actions to impede the inquiry. The New York Times, which cited people with knowledge of the discussions between the department and Trump's lawyers, said the talks had assisted the president's legal team as it prepared a rebuttal to a redacted version of the full report scheduled to be released on Thursday morning. The Justice Department declined to comment. Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow also declined to comment. Barr so far has sent a letter to Congress describing what he called a summary of the main conclusions of the investigation. In his letter to lawmakers, Barr said Mueller did not find that members of Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia. Barr said he determined there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice, though Mueller did not exonerate Trump on obstruction. Barr said he would hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. EDT (1330 GMT) on Thursday to discuss the Mueller report, along with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller as special counsel in May 2017.   (Reporting by Karen Freifeld and Sarah N. Lynch; writing by Mohammad Zargham and Grant McCool)", "id": "5cb7a60249f0eacbf1f85200", "date": "2019-04-17T22:16:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "U.S. Attorney General to Hold Mueller Report News Conference on Thursday", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William Barr will hold a news conference at 9:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) on Thursday to discuss the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential race, the Justice Department said on Wednesday. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller as special counsel nearly two years ago, will also attend the news conference, the department said in a statement. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly criticized the Mueller investigation as a \"witch hunt,\" said in a radio interview on Wednesday he may hold a news conference after Barr. Mueller on March 22 submitted to Barr a nearly 400-page report on his 22-month investigation into whether the Trump campaign worked with Moscow to sway the election in his favor, and whether Trump committed obstruction of justice with actions to impede the inquiry. In a letter to lawmakers two days later, Barr said Mueller did not find that members of Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Russia. Barr also said he determined there was not enough evidence to establish that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice, though Mueller did not exonerate Trump on obstruction.  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Writing by Eric Beech; Editing by David Alexander and Will Dunham)", "id": "5cb78f8e49f0eacbf1f85140", "date": "2019-04-17T20:40:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "After Mueller Report, News Media Leaders Defend Their Work", "full_text": " There have been tipping points and bombshells, walls closing in and turning points. And there have been so, so many declarations of “The beginning of the end!” that the comedian John Oliver had a recurring, satirical “We got him!” segment on his late-night HBO show, complete with a jubilant marching band and sequined majorettes celebrating President Trump’s downfall. But in the swirl of reporting and speculation about the 45th president, nothing has held viewers on the edge of their seats quite like the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and his investigation into possible ties between Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign and Russian agents. The story line had it all: Cold War-era intrigue, allegations of shadowy meetings in Moscow and a cast of recurring characters that included an aide in a $15,000 ostrich skin jacket (Paul D. Manafort) and another who has a tattoo of Richard Nixon on his back (Roger Stone). Mr. Mueller’s complete report hasn’t yet been released, but on Sunday, Attorney General William P. Barr made public a four-page letter to Congress reporting that the 22-month inquiry did not have sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr. Trump and his associates “conspired or coordinated with the Russian government” ahead of the 2016 election. The news blindsided many liberals — particularly those with an ambient knowledge of Rachel Maddow’s nightly monologues on MSNBC. Who could blame them? The news media’s coverage of the investigation, particularly on cable TV, caused millions of Americans who disapprove of Mr. Trump to put their faith in Mr. Mueller. There were even prayer candles, key chains and paintings made in the likeness of the silent 74-year-old Marine veteran, and his fans believed his looming report would bring, in the words of the “Bachelor” creator Mike Fleiss, “the most dramatic finale of a presidency ever!” When that didn’t happen, Mr. Trump and his allies placed blame on the news media for its ravenous coverage. “I think Democrats and the liberal media owe the president and they owe the American people an apology,” the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said on NBC News’s Today. Rich Lowry, the editor of the conservative National Review, wrote on Twitter, “The 3 biggest losers from the Mueller report in order — the media, the media, the media.” It was a bipartisan ripping. Matt Taibbi, a Rolling Stone writer whose book on the 2016 election is titled “Insane Clown President,” is not exactly a fan of Mr. Trump. And yet he called the apparent lack of new charges resulting from the special counsel’s investigation “a death blow for the reputation of the American news media.” He compared it to the erroneous reporting on weapons of mass destruction in the run-up to the Iraq war. Hogan Gidley, a White House spokesman, said that, by his count, The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and MSNBC had published a combined 8,500 stories on the Russia probe. He specifically pointed to CNN and chyrons that would include the phrase “amid Russia investigation,” no matter what the topic. “It’s so painfully obvious they wanted it to be true so badly, and the last two years of their lives and two years of their news coverage has been an entire waste,” Mr. Gidley said. Jeff Zucker, president of CNN, said he was “entirely comfortable” with the network’s coverage. “We are not investigators. We are journalists, and our role is to report the facts as we know them, which is exactly what we did,” Mr. Zucker said in an email. “A sitting president’s own Justice Department investigated his campaign for collusion with a hostile nation. That’s not enormous because the media says so. That’s enormous because it’s unprecedented.” Bill Grueskin, a professor at the Columbia School of Journalism, said there seemed to be some confusion about the role of journalists. “Mueller and Barr need to prove beyond a reasonable doubt — do we file charges or don’t we?” he said. “Journalists don’t have that standard.” In other words, Pulitzer Prize-winning reports of alleged wrongdoing do not need to provide evidence of criminality in order to be factual, newsworthy and relevant to readers. “The special counsel investigation documented, as we reported, extensive Russian interference in the 2016 election and widespread deceit on the part of certain advisers to the president about Russian contacts and other matters,” said Martin Baron, executive editor of The Washington Post. “Our job is to bring facts to light. Others make determinations about prosecutable criminal offenses.” Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, echoed that sentiment. “We wrote a lot about Russia, and I have no regrets,” he said. “It’s not our job to determine whether or not there was illegality.” But in the nearly two years of the Russia investigation, there have been several high-profile mea culpas. ABC News apologized and parted ways with its chief investigative correspondent, Brian Ross, after an errant report that Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, had been directed by Mr. Trump to make contact with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign. Three seasoned investigative journalists at CNN resigned after the network retracted a report that a close Trump aide had ties to a Russian investment firm. Mr. Mueller publicly rebuked a BuzzFeed News account that Mr. Trump had instructed his longtime lawyer Michael D. Cohen to lie in his testimony to Congress. (BuzzFeed News stood by its reporting.) “It’s pretty clear that a lot of people in the media, particularly on cable news, got ahead of their skis on this,” said Michael Isikoff, a co-author of “Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump.” Ben Smith, the editor in chief of BuzzFeed News, defended coverage of the Russian investigation, including the decision to publish a dossier put together by British intelligence officer Christopher Steele full of tantalizing (and unsubstantiated) reports about Russian efforts to blackmail Mr. Trump. “It’s pretty hard to imagine a scenario in which people were aware of its existence but not allowed to see it,” Mr. Smith said of the dossier. The editor also expressed concern that journalism was so often churned — and reduced — through the filter of partisan punditry. “I think it’s a moment when the public conversation favors partisans who are totally convinced in the rightness of what they’re saying and doesn’t favor reporters who are cautious about what they know and are trying to get things right,” Mr. Smith said. That may be true, but in the current ecosystem of political news, when shoe-leather reporters moonlight as cable news analysts, it can be hard for typical viewers to distinguish the pundits from the press. Even if more damning findings come out in the full report, Mr. Trump has already cast the narrative that he is absolved and that the “fake news” media is to be blamed, said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist and former adviser to Mitt Romney. “You see the president’s most vocal supporters, they’re touting the headlines that the president was exonerated and vindicated and where are the apologies from the media?” he said. Those apologies aren’t likely to come, as long as the same people who have been trying to erode trust in factual reporting are now ones demanding a reckoning. “We will hold every fake news media liar member accountable,” Sean Hannity wrote Sunday on Twitter. Mr. Fleiss, the producer, who knew Mr. Trump in his “Apprentice” years, said cable news had taken a page from the president’s reality TV playbook in teasing every development in the Russia investigation as if it were the final blow. “He’s a master exaggerator, been doing it his entire life,” Mr. Fleiss said. “The rookies tried to keep up and got burned.”    ", "id": "5c99687549f0eacbf105eff5", "date": "2019-03-25T23:45:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Under Pressure, U.S. Justice Department Defends Handling of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The U.S. Justice Department on Thursday defended its handling of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report examining contacts between President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia as it faced increased pressure to make the document public. The department said Attorney General William Barr must strike confidential information from the nearly 400-page document as reports surfaced in the news media that members of Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr had characterized its main conclusions. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, already pressing Barr to release the entire unredacted report to Congress, expanded his demands. Nadler, a Democrat, called on Barr to immediately release summaries of the document prepared by Mueller's team. He also asked Barr to hand over communications between the special counsel's team and the department about the report. The department said those summaries include secret grand jury information that cannot under law be made public. Barr, appointed by the Republican president, has pledged to release a redacted version of the report by mid-April. Barr said last week that Mueller's 22-month inquiry did not establish that Trump's campaign conspired with Russia in the election. Barr also said Mueller also did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump had illegally interfered with the Russia investigation, which has cast a shadow over his presidency. While Mueller did not exonerate Trump, Barr said he then concluded there was not enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice. The New York Times and the Washington Post reported that some investigators were unhappy with the way Barr had described their findings, in a sign of tensions between some members of Mueller's team and administration officials overseeing the report's release. Every page of Mueller's report contains a warning that it might contain confidential material, so Barr decided first to release the report's main findings as quickly as possible, Justice Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec said. \"The Department continues to work with the Special Counsel on appropriate redactions to the report so that it can be released to Congress and the public,\" Kupec said in a statement. The Judiciary Committee authorized Nadler on Wednesday to subpoena the department to obtain Mueller's full report, moving closer to a legal clash with the Trump administration. Congress, not Barr, should determine what gets made public, Nadler said. He has yet to issue a subpoena.  \"We are entitled to that information and we need that information,\" Nadler told reporters on Thursday. FBI Director Christopher Wray told Congress he had not seen Mueller's report.  (Additional reporting by David Morgan and Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham and Ross Colvin)", "id": "5cab37cd49f0eacbf1f81965", "date": "2019-04-08T11:58:42+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Pelosi: Attorney General Barr 'Off the Rails' on Mueller Report", "full_text": " LEESBURG, Va. — U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi castigated Attorney General William Barr on Wednesday for comments he made during congressional hearings this week about the federal probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election. \"Let me just say, I'm very, very dismayed and disappointed that the chief law enforcement officer of our country is going off the rails yesterday and today,\" Pelosi told reporters at a Democratic Party retreat in Virginia. \"He is attorney general of the United States of America, not the attorney general of Donald Trump.\" Pelosi said Democrats first of all want to see Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 election and any links to the Trump campaign.  Russia's activities were an assault on U.S. democracy - \"there is no doubt about that,\" Pelosi said.  During two congressional hearings this week, Barr defended his handling of the 400-page report Mueller submitted to him on March 22 after a two-year investigation.  It was the attorney general released a four-page letter to Congress providing a broad outline of its assessments. Barr said he would make public a redacted version of the report next week. Democrats have been calling for full disclosure. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, said on Wednesday he would look into whether U.S. agencies illegally spied on Trump's 2016 campaign, but acknowledged under sharp questioning by lawmakers that there was no evidence of wrongdoing.  (Reporting by Susan Cornwell and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Alistair Bell)", "id": "5cae7ddc49f0eacbf1f8283d", "date": "2019-04-10T23:34:26+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Under Pressure, U.S. Justice Department Defends Handling of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The U.S. Justice Department on Thursday defended its handling of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report examining contacts between President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign and Russia as it faced increased pressure to make the document public. The department said Attorney General William Barr must strike confidential information from the nearly 400-page document as reports surfaced in the news media that members of Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr had characterized its main conclusions. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, already pressing Barr to release the entire unredacted report to Congress, expanded his demands. Nadler, a Democrat, called on Barr to immediately release summaries of the document prepared by Mueller's team. He also asked Barr to hand over communications between the special counsel's team and the department about the report. The department said those summaries include secret grand jury information that cannot under law be made public. Barr, appointed by the Republican president, has pledged to release a redacted version of the report by mid-April. Barr said last week that Mueller's 22-month inquiry did not establish that Trump's campaign conspired with Russia in the election. Barr also said Mueller also did not reach a conclusion on whether Trump had illegally interfered with the Russia investigation, which has cast a shadow over his presidency. While Mueller did not exonerate Trump, Barr said he then concluded there was not enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice. The New York Times and the Washington Post reported that some investigators were unhappy with the way Barr had described their findings, in a sign of tensions between some members of Mueller's team and administration officials overseeing the report's release. Every page of Mueller's report contains a warning that it might contain confidential material, so Barr decided first to release the report's main findings as quickly as possible, Justice Department spokeswoman Kerri Kupec said. \"The Department continues to work with the Special Counsel on appropriate redactions to the report so that it can be released to Congress and the public,\" Kupec said in a statement. The Judiciary Committee authorized Nadler on Wednesday to subpoena the department to obtain Mueller's full report, moving closer to a legal clash with the Trump administration. Congress, not Barr, should determine what gets made public, Nadler said. He has yet to issue a subpoena.  \"We are entitled to that information and we need that information,\" Nadler told reporters on Thursday. FBI Director Christopher Wray told Congress he had not seen Mueller's report.  (Additional reporting by David Morgan and Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham and Ross Colvin)", "id": "5ca6329249f0eacbf1f80ec3", "date": "2019-04-04T16:35:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Out Next Week: Attorney General Barr", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Attorney General William Barr said on Wednesday that a redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election will be released next week. \"I'm landing the plane right now,\" Barr said at a Senate Appropriations Committee hearing. \"I've been willing to discuss my letters and the process going forward, but the report is going to be out next week and I'm just not going to get details of the process until the plane's on the ground.\"  (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Doina Chiacu; Editing by Alistair Bell)", "id": "5cae1ce649f0eacbf1f82615", "date": "2019-04-10T16:40:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Praise for the Mueller Report, From an Unlikely Source: Oleg Deripaska", "full_text": " MOSCOW — The email came out of the blue, from an aide to the mysterious Russian billionaire, Oleg V. Deripaska, who is said to be close to President Vladimir V. Putin and an on-again, off-again character in the two-year investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Would I be interested in interviewing Mr. Deripaska, the aide asked. It was a bit like being summoned to meet with Greta Garbo or J.D. Salinger. Of course, I said, aware that Mr. Deripaska normally communicated, if at all, through the phalanx of lawyers and publicity agents he surrounded himself with. I wondered to myself why he had suddenly decided to speak out. Soon enough, I found myself sitting alone in a hotel conference room, at a table bearing a gigantic fruit platter, unsure what to expect. This was, after all, a man who had emerged on top in Russia’s bloody aluminum wars in the 1990s, and was accused in United States Treasury Department documents of suspected ties to organized crime, money laundering and ordering a contract killing. He is a man of about average stature, whose most striking feature is his large, round head. He was intense, and spoke in a robotic English, so as not to worry about mistranslations, he said. It soon became clear that he saw the determination of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, that the Trump administration had not colluded with Russia, at least according to a Justice Department summary of his findings, as an opening to rehabilitate his image in the West. This despite the fact that Mr. Deripaska had refused to cooperate with the investigation, revealing for the first time that he had received written questions from the Mueller team but had declined to answer them. “Do I feel like your president, that I am exonerated?” he said at one point. “I never felt guilty. It was annoying for me. There was this huge crush on my business, on my companies, when sanctions were put on the companies I founded.” Over cups of special black tea from his home region, Krasnodar, he complained of the tendency of the American news media to rush to judgment and professed confidence in the United States justice system, which he said would ultimately prove his innocence of any wrongdoing. A graduate of a prestigious physics faculty, Mr. Deripaska rose to wealth in the 1990s, strong arming his way to a virtual monopoly over the Russian aluminum industry. When it placed sanctions on him and his companies last year, the Treasury Department cited his links to the Russian government, saying he profits from the country’s “malign activity around the globe.” Even while keeping a low profile, he pursued a costly lobbying and legal effort to assert his innocence. Initially, this revolved around sanctions on his businesses, and with the help of a global influence-buying operation he did persuade the Treasury Department to lift sanctions on his aluminum empire in January. Mr. Deripaska now wants to escape the personal sanctions, which hinder his ability to do business in the United States. Last month, he filed a lawsuit seeking the removal of those sanctions, which he claims have cost him $7.5 billion. The conclusion that members of the Trump campaign had not colluded with Russians, Mr. Deripaska said, suggested the tide was shifting in campaigns of innuendo and guilt through leaks to the news media. If so, he said, the American justice system might also eventually clear him of other accusations never proven in court, such as ordering a contract murder. “I always believe in justice,” said Mr. Deripaska, whose lawyers have frequently fought to keep suits from being brought in American courts, saying they have no jurisdiction. “For us outside the United States, Mueller signals that the U.S. legal system is still alive, it still exists.” Mr. Deripaska had faced scrutiny for financial entanglements with a former Trump campaign chairman, Paul J. Manafort, who in July 2016 reportedly asked an associate to offer Mr. Deripaska a private briefing on the presidential race, in hopes of settling a $26 million lawsuit stemming from a failed investment venture. The two had been business associates a decade ago. Mr. Deripaska had denied receiving the offer, but had not addressed these matters in detail while the investigation continued. “There was a new reality in the U.S. In politics, in social life, you do not respect presumption of innocence,” he said, speaking of the sanctions imposed on him last year and leaks to the news media about the Russia investigation. “There is no due process. Without any court, the public can consider people guilty of something.” Mr. Deripaska was an early focus of the F.B.I. investigation into Russian meddling. In September 2016, two months before the election, F.B.I. agents questioned him in an early morning visit to his New York residence. He declined to elaborate on the specific, written questions the special counsel later sent to Moscow, but said they generally tracked news media reports about prosecutors’ suspicions. He did not answer on the advice of his lawyers, he said. Besides, he said, “Why should I?” Mr. Manafort agreed to work for the Trump campaign for free, but did seek compensation elsewhere. In an email reported by The Washington Post, Mr. Manafort suggested to a former employee, Konstantin V. Kilimnik, that his dispute with the Russian tycoon might be resolved by offering “private briefings” about the campaign. Mr. Manafort also transferred internal Trump campaign polling data to Mr. Kilimnik, who the special counsel said had ties to Russian intelligence. These circumstances still have congressional investigators alarmed. “You might think it’s O.K. that the campaign chairman of a presidential campaign would offer information about that campaign to a Russian oligarch in exchange for money or debt forgiveness,” Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said at a hearing last week. “I don’t.” In the interview, Mr. Deripaska denied, as he had when The Washington Post first reported the offer of private briefings in 2017, ever having received from Mr. Manafort either an offer or any information about the campaign. “For me, it’s just absurd,” he said. “I had no interest in the U.S. election. Why on earth, if I have no interest, would somebody offer private briefings to me?” He last met Mr. Manafort in 2011, he said. “It’s not even sociable,” he said of the reported offer of briefings. “It looks like this: You haven’t seen this guy, you know you have this huge sum of a dispute, and then you are like, ‘Let’s go and drink a cup of coffee.’” Mr. Deripaska said that he indeed suspended his multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Mr. Manafort, but not because Mr. Manafort had asked him to do so or because he had received anything from the campaign chairman in return. “My lawyers felt that might put me at risk, which anyway happened later, when Manafort appeared in the campaign,” he said, referring to the eventual sanctions that came in 2018. “They didn’t want to bring more attention,” to the business dispute with a man who had become prominent in American politics, he said. He later refiled the lawsuit. In fighting to lift the personal sanctions, Mr. Deripaska must overcome years-old accusations of ties to organized crime related to his path from the ashes of the former Soviet Union’s aluminum industry to a billionaire with global reach, and allegations he is a front for the Kremlin on foreign policy matters. Mr. Deripaska called these accusations “balderdash” and his lawsuit challenged the sanction on constitutional grounds. He also denied he is close to Mr. Putin, insisting he only deals with the government on matters of business regulation. The conclusion of the special counsel’s investigation, he said, gave him hope for success. “I reaffirm to myself that the U.S. systems, that U.S. institutions, still exist.” Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting from Washington  ", "id": "5ca520a749f0eacbf1f80b49", "date": "2019-04-03T21:06:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Hundreds Gather Near White House to Demand Mueller Report Release", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Several hundred people gathered outside the White House and in New York's Times Square in small rallies organized by liberal advocacy groups demanding the release of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russia's role in the 2016 presidential election. U.S. Attorney General William Barr, who received the confidential report last month at the close of Mueller's 22-month investigation, has said he intended to release a redacted version to Congress and the public by mid-April. But Barr did not meet a demand by Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives to provide the unredacted report to lawmakers by April 2, prompting the liberal advocacy group MoveOn to press ahead with the rallies. The rallies were thinly attended, with about 250 people outside the White House and about 300 in New York's Times Square waving signs, singing and demanding the report, which is nearly 400 pages long excluding appendices. \"Release the report, release the report,\" the crowd chanted in Times Square. \"We're here because we care about small-'d' democracy, which this president has undermined at every turn,\" said Betsy Malcolm, a 63-year-old retired lawyer from Manhattan. \"We have a right to see the information in the Mueller report.\" In Washington, the crowd was addressed by U.S. Representative Jerrold Nadler, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, who won a committee vote on Wednesday allowing him to subpoena the attorney general for the full report. \"The Constitution gives Congress the power to take the appropriate action to hold the president accountable,\" the Democrat said. \"To do our job we need the Mueller report.\" Barr, a Trump appointee, has made public what he described as the \"principal conclusions\" of Mueller's report. Mueller's team did not establish that Trump or his campaign conspired with Russia during the 2016 election, according to Barr's four-page summary, an accusation Trump and his associates have long denied.  Mueller left unresolved in his report the question of whether Trump obstructed justice by impeding the Russia investigation. In his letter to Congress, Barr said he and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein, had determined there was insufficient evidence to establish the president committed that offense. Russia's government has denied interfering in the U.S. election. Barr told Congress in a letter last week that he must redact material presented to a grand jury, as required by law, as well as information that could reveal U.S. intelligence agencies' sources and methods. Congressional Democrats have indicated they will fight those redactions in court if the subpoena is ignored.  (Reporting by Jan Pytalski in Washington and Jonathan Allen in New York; Additional reporting by Barbara Goldberg; Writing by Jonathan Allen; editing by Frank McGurty, Jonathan Oatis and Richard Chang)", "id": "5ca5d7a249f0eacbf1f80d63", "date": "2019-04-04T10:07:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Brexit, Boeing: Your Monday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  The special counsel found no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, Brexit remains a mess and Boeing may have rushed to finish its 737 Max 8. Here’s the latest:  The investigation led by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, found no evidence that President Trump or any of his aides conspired with Russia to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.  The long-awaited report stopped short of exonerating the president of obstructing justice, according to the summary of findings made public by Attorney General William Barr on Sunday.  Obstruction of justice: Mr. Barr concluded that Mr. Mueller’s report, which he reviewed over the weekend, did not present sufficient evidence of a crime.  Analysis: Although Mr. Trump claimed that Mr. Mueller’s findings were “a complete and total exoneration,” Mr. Mueller explicitly said they were not. Still, a cloud had been lifted, wrote our reporter. What’s next? Democrats are demanding the full report, and they are conducting several investigations. Federal and state prosecutors are pursuing a dozen other inquiries that grew out of Mr. Mueller’s work. In the wake of a Brexit extension, hundreds of thousands of protesters overtook the streets of London this weekend, calling on lawmakers to break the political stalemate and hold a second referendum on Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. The march reflected growing popular frustration over the gridlock, but few lawmakers have any appetite for a second public vote. What’s next? The E.U. gave British Parliament until April 12 to decide how to proceed. If lawmakers approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s widely unpopular draft plan by then, Britain will leave the bloc on May 22. If not, Britain has three choices: a no-deal Brexit on April 12, no Brexit at all or a delay of up to two more years. Parliament has strongly opposed these options, too. Today, lawmakers will vote on amendments to the plan.  How we got here: Britons who once simply wanted a less restrictive relationship with the E.U. are now willing to accept a no-deal Brexit. In order for Boeing to clinch a deal with American Airlines — and to keep the airline from ordering hundreds of planes from Boeing’s rival, Airbus — the aircraft manufacturer knew it would need to update its workhorse 737 Max 8 within six years. That competitive pressure to build the 737 Max 8 now threatens Boeing’s reputation and profits, after two deadly crashes of the jet in less than five months. The pace of the work on the 737 Max was frenetic, according to current and former employees who spoke with The Times. Prosecutors are investigating whether Boeing rushed, missed crucial safety risks or underplayed the need for pilot training. Inside Boeing: Engineers were pushed to submit technical drawings at roughly double the normal pace, and managers quickly pulled workers from other departments when someone left the Max project.  Over the weekend: About a dozen pilots and trainers from American Airlines, Southwest Airlines and United Airlines, as well as from two non-U.S. airlines, Copa Airlines and Fly Dubai, met with Boeing executives to discuss proposed changes to the 737 Max. Many of the pilots simulated flights under conditions similar to those believed to have brought down the two planes, and they were able to land safely.  President Xi Jinping of China visited Monaco and France this weekend as European leaders grappled with how to engage with China and benefit from its trade, while setting limits on its appetite for greater influence.  A divided front: Italy defied allies and became the first Group of 7 nation to sign on to China’s Belt and Road initiative on Saturday.  President Emmanuel Macron of France opposed the move, and he, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and representatives of the E.U. are expected to present a united front to Mr. Xi this week against what they consider China’s aggressive expansion into the continent.  The memorandum of understanding that was formalized on Saturday provides a framework agreement for billions of euros in business deals between Italian and Chinese-state-backed companies.  Belt and Road: The project is an attempt by China to expand its influence and economic interests around the world, building out its global infrastructure.  Algeria: Protesters are demanding the ouster of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika and his entire system — and demonstrations are growing larger and larger.  France: Thousands of police officers fanned out across Paris and other cities as “Yellow Vest” protests entered their 19th weekend. Though sporadic clashes erupted late in the day, violence dropped as protesters marched peacefully in the capital.  Norway: A cruise ship stranded off the country’s coast finally reached shore, a welcome sight for hundreds of passengers who had not been evacuated in a harrowing rescue operation. They arrived bruised and battered, hurt by falling objects and shattered glass on the rocking ship. Syria: The last bastion of the Islamic State’s caliphate fell to American-backed forces on Saturday after a four-year battle. It was a blow to the terrorist group, which once controlled land in the region the size of Britain, but ISIS remains a serious threat. The Netherlands: The primary suspect in a shooting aboard a Dutch tram that left three dead and five wounded confessed to the crime on Friday, prosecutors said.  North Korea: The country’s state media escalated calls for South Korea to distance itself from the U.S., as the U.S. sent mixed signals over whether it would tighten or relax sanctions on the North. Cambodia: Top E.U. officials visited the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, to consider revoking a special trade deal because of the country’s deteriorating human rights record. Russia: A marathon across the frozen surface of Lake Baikal in Siberia attracts runners both for its exotic, ethereal beauty and the unpredictable, grueling conditions. “Baikal prepares new surprises,” said the founder of the race. “That makes it more interesting.” Class divide: Human contact has become a luxury good. Tech-free private schools are booming, and things like quitting social networks have become a status symbol. “The richer you are,” writes our tech reporter, “the more you spend to be offscreen.” Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: You can always toss roasted broccoli with something delicious, like a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Passion can be a gift or a curse. We have guidance on avoiding obsession as you pursue your most profound interests. Knees are the body’s most taxed joint. Here are some ways to keep from injuring them. Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York City’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips only a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain. The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero. There once was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but in 1992 it was changed to an S for shuttle. The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988. Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it is gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 as part of new service after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived after all (for now). Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic ", "id": "5c984a5b49f0eacbf105ed40", "date": "2019-03-25T03:24:49+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democratic-Led House Panel Authorizes Subpoenas for Mueller Report, Evidence", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee voted on Wednesday to authorize subpoenas for Special Counsel Robert Mueller's full, unredacted report and underlying evidence from his investigation into Russia's role in the 2016 election. The 24-17 vote along party lines - with Democrats in favor and President Donald Trump's fellow Republicans opposed - authorized the panel's chairman, Jerrold Nadler, to subpoena Mueller's material. The measure also authorized Nadler to subpoena documents and testimony from five former Trump aides, including former political advisor Steve Bannon and former White House Counsel Donald McGahn.   (Reporting by David Morgan; Editing by Will Dunham)", "id": "5cab37ce49f0eacbf1f81966", "date": "2019-04-08T11:58:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Putin, on Mueller Report: 'We Said From the Start It Would Find Nothing'", "full_text": " ST PETERSBURG/MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday commented for the first time on Special Counsel Robert Mueller's completed report into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, saying Moscow had always said it would find nothing. U.S. Attorney General William Barr said in a summary released last month that Mueller had found no evidence of collusion between Trump's campaign and Russia in the election. Putin, speaking at an Arctic forum in the Russian city of St Petersburg, said on Friday that Mueller's findings were predictable for Moscow. \"That it (Mueller's inquiry) would finish in that way - like a mountain giving birth to a mouse as they say - was clear to us in advance. I've been telling you this all along.\" \"We said from the start that this infamous commission of Mr Mueller's would not find anything because nobody knows this better than us. Russia did not meddle in any elections in the United States. There was no collusion, as Mr Mueller said, between Trump and Russia.\"  Putin said the original allegations of collusion were \"complete nonsense\" that had been invented for domestic U.S. political consumption and as part of what he described as America's internal political struggle. The U.S. Attorney General told lawmakers on Tuesday that he intends to release the Mueller report to the public within a week. While the Mueller report cleared Trump of colluding with Russia it did not clear Moscow of trying to meddle in the 2016 vote. U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia did interfere, with a campaign of email hacking and online propaganda aimed at sowing discord. When asked at the same event whether he wanted to see Trump re-elected next year, Putin declined to express a view, citing a long list of disagreements with the Trump administration and saying that the question of Trump's possible re-election was purely a matter for the American people. But Putin, who has praised Trump in the past, said he hoped Moscow and Washington would be able to work together to try to resolve their many differences on the international stage once what he described as the U.S. political crisis was over. Putin in July last year said he had wanted Trump to win the 2016 U.S. presidential election because Trump had spoken of wanting to repair U.S.-Russia relations. Overshadowed by the Mueller report and disagreements over everything from Syria to Ukraine, relations between Russia and the United States have in fact got worse under Trump.   (Additional reporting by Maria Tsvetkova; Writing by Andrew Osborn; Editing by Christian Lowe)", "id": "5cacc0c849f0eacbf1f81f50", "date": "2019-04-09T15:55:26+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What to Read While You’re (Still) Waiting to Read the Mueller Report", "full_text": " FURTHER READING Nearly a month after Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election — and whether Donald Trump and his associates conspired with Russia or obstructed justice — to Attorney General William P. Barr, members of Congress, and the public, are still waiting to read the report’s contents. This week, Barr told Congress that he plans to make a redacted version of the Mueller report public, possibly by next week. While we wait to read the report — here are some books to occupy you the meantime. Based on rare interviews with Mueller, as well as with more than 150 former government and city officials, this book covers the former FBI director’s tenure and legacy, as well as the evolution of the Bureau. Graff explains that while FBI agents were once focused on solving crimes, post 9/11 they have also been tasked with preventing them, especially potential terrorist threats. The job has become more complex, in other words, and Graff argues that as the person who led the institution through this transition, Mueller is the most influential leader of the FBI since J. Edgar Hoover.  When Trump fired F.B.I. director James Comey in May 2017, it triggered a rapid cascade of events within the Department of Justice that ultimately led to Mueller’s appointment as special counsel. In this mega-best seller, Comey describes his role in the high-stakes investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia.  Writing in the Times, Michiko Kakutani praised Comey’s eye for detail, referring to him as “what Saul Bellow called a “first-class noticer.” “Comey’s book fleshes out the testimony he gave before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June 2017 with considerable emotional detail, and it showcases its author’s gift for narrative — a skill he clearly honed during his days as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York,” she wrote. This scathing indictment (no, not in the technical sense) of the Trump administration is from the former deputy director of the F.B.I., who was fired last year right before his planned retirement. McCabe is unsparing in the book: “The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.” Our critic Dwight Garner took appreciative note of McCabe’s “lean” prose: “The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from “Dragnet”: “Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.” Bharara, the former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, was also fired by Trump in 2017, which seems to be a great way to get a book deal. Bharara oversaw a significant investigation into insider trading by Wall Street executives, and also investigated Russian money laundering. Lately, he has become an omnipresent commentator on the myriad investigations into Trump (in addition to his new book and regular TV appearances, he has a popular podcast, “Stay Tuned With Preet”). But when it comes to the timing and content of the Mueller report, he’s as much in the dark as the rest of us, apparently. Harding, a correspondent for The Guardian, explores Trump’s decades-long entanglements with Russia in what his publisher describes as a conspiracy “so huge it involves international espionage, offshore banks, sketchy real estate deals, the Miss Universe pageant, mobsters, money laundering, poisoned dissidents, computer hacking, and the most shocking election in American history.” Harding delves into Trump’s deals with Deutsche Bank and examines Trump’s campaign manager Paul Manafort’s extensive ties to Russian and Ukranian oligarchs. (It’s an exhaustive account, but by now, it’s a bit out of date: The book came out in 2017, many indictments and plea deals ago.) Isikoff and Corn, two veteran journalists in Washington, lay out how Russia unleashed hackers and internet trolls to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They also explore the puzzling ties between Trump and his associates and Russian officials.  In a review for The Times, the Times journalist Steven Lee Myers, the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir Putin,” wrote: “For anyone who believes in the better angels of American politics, ‘Russian Roulette’ is a depressing book. The Russian hacking, it is now clear, simply exploited the vulgarity already plaguing American political campaigns, which churn on spin and strategy (and money) far more than vision or values.” In “The Apprentice,” Miller, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who has covered national security for The Washington Post, details how Russia exploited American technology platforms to spread misinformation, damaging Hillary Clinton and boosting Trump, while at the same time hacking and releasing Democratic emails, further inflaming partisan divisions in an already nasty campaign. He also explores links between Trump and his associates and Russia, but steers clear of speculation about what the ultimate revelations regarding Trump’s possible complicity might be. “Miller makes no pretense about knowing the end of the story and acknowledges that at this point he does not know whether the special counsel, Robert Mueller, will accuse the president of any crimes,” a critic wrote in The Washington Post. McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia, was responsible for what became known as the “Reset,” a political plan put in place during the Obama administration to reboot relations with the country. McFaul argues that he and Barack Obama were able to drive forward a range of policies, but that the election of Vladimir Putin halted their plans. McFaul became persona non grata in Russia. He and his family were closely surveilled, and McFaul was subjected to cyber attacks meant to discredit him, such as YouTube videos suggesting he was a pedophile or a fake Twitter account that posted criticisms of the Russian elections under his name.  “McFaul combines both analytical and personal perspectives to offer a fascinating and timely account of the current crisis in the relationship between Russia and the United States,” our reviewer wrote.  This is the definitive account of the explosive investigation that brought down President Richard Nixon, by two now-famous reporters from The Washington Post.  More recently, with his latest best-seller, “Fear,” Woodward has unleashed his investigative skills on the Trump administration. It took Kenneth Starr, a former special counsel, around four years and $40 million to complete his investigation into President Bill Clinton’s affair with Monica Lewinsky, and whether Clinton committed perjury and obstructed justice in an effort to cover up the scandal. The salacious account is a door-stopper, almost 500 pages long. Several publishers, including Skyhorse, Scribner and Melville House, as well as the audiobook publisher Audible, have already announced their plans to publish the Mueller report and have made the books available on Amazon for pre-order. (Presumably the pages are still blank.) Or, if you can’t wait, you can always reread some of Mueller’s vividly detailed indictments. Those documents lay out contours of the investigation so far, which has led to 199 charges against 34 people and three companies. Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.\r\n   @xanalter     @xanalter  Concepción de León is a digital staff writer covering news and culture for the Books section.  ", "id": "5c953b1949f0eacbf105e907", "date": "2019-03-22T19:42:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Thailand, Brexit: Your Monday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day. (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Congress finds out what’s in the Mueller report, Thailand’s military appears to have won elections and Brexit continues to confound a nation. Here’s the latest: Attorney General William Barr sent lawmakers a summary of the special counsel’s highly anticipated report on Russian interference during the 2016 presidential election. The key findings will be made public later today. This much is clear: The Mueller report established no conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, but left it to Mr. Barr to determine whether President Trump's actions constituted obstruction of justice. Mr. Barr found that they did not. Our Washington Bureau is assessing the summary in greater detail now, and we’ll be updating the news story linked above and our live briefing. Impact: The report’s delivery “marked a turning point that will shape the remainder of Mr. Trump’s presidency and test the viability of American governance,” our chief White House correspondent writes. Other investigations: The special counsel, Robert Mueller, issued no further indictments but federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other inquiries that grew out of his work, meaning President Trump hasn’t yet emerged from a looming legal threat. Hundreds of thousands of protesters took over the streets of Central London on Saturday, calling on lawmakers to break the political stalemate and hold a second referendum on Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. Few lawmakers have any appetite for a second public vote, however, so the march’s main impact may be as a reflection of growing popular frustration over the gridlock. What’s next? Officials in the E.U. gave the British Parliament until April 12 to decide what it wants to do, so Brexit will not take effect on March 29, the date set two years ago. On the table is Prime Minister Theresa May’s widely unpopular draft plan. If lawmakers approve it by the E.U. deadline, Britain will leave the bloc on May 22. If not, Britain has three choices: a no-deal Brexit on April 12, no Brexit at all or a longer delay of possibly two more years. Parliament has strongly opposed all of these options, too. Today: Lawmakers are to vote on proposed amendments to Mrs. May’s plan, including one that would allow for a rapid-fire round of voting on alternatives. Analysis: Ellen Barry, our London correspondent, looks at how some Brexit supporters have shifted from the original goal of a less restrictive relationship with the E.U. to willingness to walk away from the bloc with no deal at all. A military-linked party seemed to have emerged as the winner of parliamentary elections, the country’s first vote since a coup in 2014. With about 90 percent of the ballots counted as of Sunday, Palang Pracharat, the military’s proxy party, had 7.5 million votes, the Election Commission said. Pheu Thai, the populist party toppled in the coup, had been widely expected to finish first, but was second with seven million votes. The remaining votes will be counted today, but it appears to be the first electoral failure since 2001 of a party aligned with Thaksin Shinawatra, the polarizing former prime minister. Concerns: More than 5 percent of the ballots were invalidated, raising questions about the integrity of the results. And turnout was 66 percent, lower than the expected 80 percent. Democracy activists say the new military-backed Constitution worked in favor of the country’s armed forces, which has orchestrated more than a dozen successful coups over the years. Electoral rules blunted the power of some blocs, and the threat of jail time hung over leaders of anti-junta parties. The voting was for the lower house. The new Constitution gives the military the power to appoint all 250 members of the Senate, so its power in Parliament will be overwhelming. A four-year military operation to push the terrorist group from Iraq and Syria ended on Saturday when American-backed forces took back the last speck of land in the region controlled by the group. The end of the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate, which at its peak was the size of Britain, is a major blow to the group. The group continues to exist, however, as a diffuse insurgency from Afghanistan to the Philippines, and experts say it is more powerful today than it was in 2011, enriched by years of collecting taxes in Iraq and Syria and returning to the guerrilla tactics it used in the past. Recruiting: A modern, educated couple in the Philippines became key recruiters for the Islamic State, calling on followers to wage jihad in Muslim parts of the archipelago. On the ground: Hours after a U.S.-backed militia announced victory over the Islamic State in Syria, a local driver working with a team of journalists from NBC News was killed in an explosion in the area. It was not immediately clear whether the group had been targeted, or whether previously unexploded ordnance from heavy militia bombing might have been involved. Boeing: An investigation by The Times looks into how the aircraft manufacturer rushed to develop the 737 Max 8 to keep American Airlines from ordering hundreds of planes from its rival, Airbus, and how the frenetic pace played out for engineers and construction teams. New Zealand: The country banned the so-called manifesto of the man suspected in the Christchurch massacre, making it a crime to possess or distribute the content in an attempt to limit the spread of hateful ideas and foil his desire for notoriety. China-E.U. relations: President Xi Jinping secured Italy’s cooperation with his Belt and Road initiative and then headed to France to meet with European leaders, some of whom fear widening internal divisions over China’s increasing reach. Cambodia: Top E.U. officials visited the Cambodian capital, Phnom Penh, to consider revoking a special trading deal because of the country’s deteriorating human rights record. North Korea: The country’s state media escalated calls for South Korea to distance itself from the U.S., as the U.S. sent mixed signals over whether it would tighten or relax sanctions on the North. Norway: A cruise ship stranded for nearly 24 hours by rough weather and engine trouble finally headed to shore, after about a third of the 1,300 people aboard were airlifted, one by one, to safety. Coming this week: Apple will unveil its video streaming service on Monday, and Lyft — Uber’s main rival in North America — will make its debut on the stock market on Friday in what could be the tech world’s biggest initial public offering since 2014. Russia: A marathon across the frozen surface of Lake Baikal in Siberia was a precarious endeavor through unpredictable and grueling conditions. “Baikal prepares new surprises,” said the founder of the race. “That makes it more interesting.” Perspective: Calling Asian women “adorable,” “cute” or “beautiful” in professional settings is a form of racism that “dresses up its violence in praise,” the author R.O. Kwon argues in an Op-Ed. Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: You can always toss roasted broccoli with something delicious, like a Thai-style vinaigrette. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Passion can be a gift or a curse. We have guidance on avoiding obsession as you pursue your most profound interests. Knees are the body’s most taxed joint. Here are some ways to keep from injuring them. Last week, Emma Fitzsimmons, a transit reporter for The Times, wrote about the strange disparity in New York City’s subway lines, exploring why lettered lines — notably the F — performed particularly badly. We noticed that the subway system skips only a few letters of the alphabet, and asked her to explain. The letters missing from the current subway map either were removed over the years or never existed because officials thought they might confuse riders. An I train could have been mistaken for a 1, or an O train for zero. There was an H train — a shuttle line in Rockaway Park, Queens — but it was changed to an S for shuttle in 1992. The K once ran along the C line in Manhattan, but the letter was retired in 1988. Once a letter disappears from the map, that doesn’t mean it is gone forever. The W train, between Queens and Manhattan, was axed in 2010 and then reappeared in 2016 as part of new service after the opening of the Second Avenue subway, which diverted the Q train to three new stations on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. As for the Z, transit advocates held a funeral for the line amid budget cuts in 2009, but it has survived after all (for now). Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g ", "id": "5c97d4a949f0eacbf105ec86", "date": "2019-03-24T19:02:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "House Votes, 420-to-0, to Demand Public Release of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — House Republicans joined Democrats on Thursday to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of President Trump’s campaign. Though the resolution is nonbinding, Democrats who put it on the House floor are trying to build public pressure on Attorney General William P. Barr before the investigation’s anticipated conclusion. Far from standing in the way, Republicans joined Democrats en masse. On the 420-to-0 vote, four Republicans voted present. “This report must see the light of day, must be available to the American public for a catharsis that will allow us to start with the facts, understand what happened and begin to rebuild the faith of the American people,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, which has undertaken its own Russia investigation. [Update: Mueller delivers report on Russia investigation to attorney general.]  Republicans debating it on the House floor called the resolution a waste of time and said they trusted Mr. Barr. But they were unwilling to stand in its way. “I am especially concerned about what would happen if the report was not made available to Congress,” Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-ranking Republican, said in a statement. “Since the investigation began, Democrats have used it as an excuse to fund-raise, fear-monger and peddle conspiracy theories about collusion with the Russian government. Let’s bring this chapter to a close.” The four “present” votes came from two libertarians who routinely oppose such resolutions, Representatives Justin Amash of Michigan and Thomas Massie of Kentucky, and two ardent Trump loyalists, Representatives Matt Gaetz of Florida and Paul Gosar of Arizona. Mr. Gaetz said afterward that while he supported making the report public, he objected to other language in the resolution praising the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, whose team he has repeatedly attacked as partisan. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, tried to move the resolution through the Senate later on Thursday by unanimous consent, but he was blocked by Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. Though Mr. Graham, the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, said he supported transparency, he asked to amend the resolution to include the appointment of a new special counsel to investigate the F.B.I.’s handling of the Hillary Clinton email case and its surveillance of a former Trump adviser. Mr. Schumer rejected the request as political and beside the point, and the resolution failed. The Justice Department has given signals in recent weeks that after 22 months, Mr. Mueller is nearing completion of his work. Peter Carr, a spokesman for Mr. Mueller, offered what many viewed as fresh evidence of an imminent conclusion on Thursday when he confirmed that one of the special counsel’s top prosecutors, Andrew Weissmann, will be departing the special counsel’s office “in the near future.” The resolution — sponsored by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman, and a handful of other Democratic committee leaders — “calls for the public release of any report Special Counsel Mueller provides to the attorney general, except to the extent the public disclosure of any portion thereof is expressly prohibited by law.” Under the regulation that governs special counsels, Mr. Mueller is expected to produce a confidential report on his prosecution decisions to Mr. Barr, who will then review it and produce his own report to Congress. Thus far, Mr. Barr has demurred on just what he will release to Congress and the public, reserving the right to keep some matters secret. Democrats seized on Mr. Barr’s resistance to making specific promises about the Mueller findings during his confirmation process in the Senate. They have not let the point rest in the weeks since, with prominent Democratic chairmen and other leaders laying out their case for why all of the special counsel’s findings — including underlying evidence — ought to be shared with Congress for review. House Democrats are prepared to use subpoena power and other tools at their disposal to force the Justice Department to turn over anything Mr. Barr chooses to withhold. They argue that the Justice Department set a new precedent in the last two years when it granted Republicans, who then controlled the House, extraordinary access to hundreds of thousands of pages of sensitive investigative material related to the F.B.I.’s investigation of Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private server and the Russia investigation itself. “Last year, I directly warned department leadership that in providing these materials to Congress, they were establishing a precedent, and one they would have to live with in the future,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee. Democrats also fear that the Justice Department could combine its policies against indicting a sitting president and against disclosing negative information on an investigative target who was not indicted to justify keeping secret all the information collected about Mr. Trump. “To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up,” Mr. Nadler said during debate over the resolution on Thursday. Though they voted for the resolution, many Republicans expressed skepticism about the wisdom and likely success of Democrats’ quest. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, told reporters last week that he anticipated hurdles to public disclosure in the form of classified information, information obtained through a secret grand jury process and the need to insulate continuing prosecutions stemming from the investigation. “Those are also going to be things that we are going to have to litigate,” Mr. Collins said. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c8a62be49f0eacbf105d0df", "date": "2019-03-14T14:17:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Says Mueller Report Should Be Made Public: ‘Let People See It’", "full_text": " President Trump said Wednesday that he would support the public release of the special counsel report on possible Russian ties to his 2016 campaign, telling reporters that Attorney General William P. Barr should “let it come out.” Mr. Trump, who declined last month to commit to making the results of the investigation public, said “tens of millions” of Americans would want to read the report prepared by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. “Let people see it. That’s up to the attorney general,” Mr. Trump told reporters on the South Lawn of the White House. He later added: “There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.” [Update: Mueller delivers report on Russia investigation to attorney general.] The law does not require the Justice Department to publicly release a report on the special counsel investigation, and in the past the president has said he would not interfere in the department’s decision about whether to do so. But the question of whether and how the report might be released has been a persistent one since Matthew G. Whitaker, then the acting attorney general, told reporters in January that the investigation was nearly completed. Mr. Whitaker said he hoped Mr. Mueller would submit a report on his findings “as soon as possible.” Mr. Barr declined to guarantee the public release of the report during his Senate confirmation hearings last month. Mr. Mueller has not publicly commented on the matter. But last week, Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives demanded, in a nonbinding vote of 420 to 0, that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation. Justice Department rules require Mr. Mueller to explain his prosecutorial decisions at the end of the investigation in a confidential report to the attorney general, who must then send a report to Congress indicating why the work has been completed. But the attorney general’s report to Congress is not required to be exhaustive and may be only a summary of the special counsel’s findings. Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he was looking forward to reading the report. But he told reporters he thought he should not have to bother with the special counsel investigation by dint of his “tremendous” Electoral College victory in 2016. “It’s sort of interesting that a man, out of the blue, just writes a report,” he said. “I think it’s ridiculous.”   ", "id": "5c92ddf549f0eacbf105e2c3", "date": "2019-03-21T00:40:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Won’t Commit to Making Mueller Report Public", "full_text": " WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump would not commit in an interview aired Sunday to making public the results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s ties to his campaign, adding that it was time to “get rid” of the inquiry. In the interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Mr. Trump reiterated his belief that the attorney general would determine whether the public would see the results of the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. But he would not say whether he would be comfortable with the results being made public. “I don’t know,” the president said. “It depends. I have no idea what it’s going to say.” The law does not require the Justice Department to release a report, and Mr. Mueller has been silent on the issue. Last month, Trump advisers were pleased that William P. Barr, Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, opened the door to the possibility that the special counsel’s report could be shielded from the public during a Senate confirmation hearing. Mr. Trump’s wide-ranging interview with Margaret Brennan, the show’s host, was conducted days after the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, said the investigation was nearing its end, and amid stagnant negotiations with Democrats over Mr. Trump’s demand for a border wall. Mr. Trump indicated at various points in the interview that he would use the power of his office to solve that matter and others facing his presidency. Among those matters, the president appeared to suggest, are national security and the military. He called the use of military force against Venezuela “an option.” And he indicated that he would like to keep troops in Iraq — a striking departure from his push to withdraw from Afghanistan and Syria — to “keep an eye” on Iran. “It’s perfectly situated for looking at all over different parts of the troubled Middle East rather than pulling up,” Mr. Trump said. “We’re going to keep watching and we’re going to keep seeing and if there’s trouble, if somebody is looking to do nuclear weapons or other things, we’re going to know it before they do.” On the border wall fight, the president reiterated his belief that “we have now set the table” to take action after a short-term deal to fund part of the government — a deal struck to end the longest government shutdown in history — expires on Feb. 15. In an interview with The New York Times on Thursday, Mr. Trump suggested that he had successfully made the case to Americans that the problem at the border was enough to constitute declaring a national emergency, and that Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, was doing a “disservice” to the country — both points he again made on Sunday. “People that didn’t have any idea,” Mr. Trump said. “They didn’t have a clue as to what was happening. They now know exactly what’s happening.” Mr. Trump is expected to make immigration a cornerstone of his State of the Union speech, which is scheduled for Tuesday. In the interview with CBS, Mr. Trump once again accused Democrats, in particular Ms. Pelosi, of ignoring urgent problems at the border, which included human trafficking and what Mr. Trump called an “invasion” of human traffickers into the country. Though Mr. Trump seems intent on ignoring congressional negotiations, lawmakers insisted on Sunday that they were still trying. Senator Richard C. Shelby, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and a member of the committee working to reach a deal, admitted that it was too early to say whether the negotiations could be successful. “I think that the president is dead set on keeping his campaign promise,” Mr. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” He acknowledged that Mr. Trump probably had some legal merits for declaring a national emergency over the border wall, but he pleaded for the committee to be allowed to do its work. “If people leave us alone,” Mr. Shelby added, “we’ll get this done by Wednesday night.” He said that the committee had invited experts with knowledge of the southwestern border to testify this week on exactly what is needed for border security. Mr. Shelby expressed optimism that hearing from those experts “could move us off of” the semantic debate over a wall or fencing. “It’s a question of how do we get off the politics and on to the substance,” he said. Other members of the bipartisan committee — Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas, and Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota — doubled down on their respective party’s positions on “Fox News Sunday.” Mr. Cuellar, who represents parts of the border, dismissed the president’s reasoning for the wall as built on “a false premise.” In the CBS interview, Mr. Trump fought back against criticism of his wall and other policies. He responded to warnings that his administration was risking a resurgence of terrorist groups by promising the rapid withdrawal of troops from Syria and Afghanistan by saying that he “ran against 17 Republicans” and won. “I’ll leave intelligence there,” Mr. Trump said, “and if I see nests forming, I’ll do something about it.” Last week, Mr. Trump showed similar defiance in suggesting that his intelligence chiefs “go back to school” for issuing a threat assessment saying that North Korea was unlikely to give up its nuclear program and that Iran is not, for now, taking steps necessary to make a bomb. Mr. Trump said that he would ultimately rely on his own counsel if he disagreed with intelligence assessments. The president also indicated that the power of his affectionate letter writing with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, might persuade Mr. Kim to drop his nuclear plans. Mr. Trump has at least six letters from Mr. Kim that he enjoys sharing with people who visit him in the Oval Office. “We have had tremendous correspondence that some people have seen and can’t even believe it,” Mr. Trump said. “Now that doesn’t mean we’re going to make a deal. But certainly I think we have a very good chance of making a deal.” Other leaders did not receive such praise. Mr. Trump said that he had declined a meeting with Nicolás Maduro, the embattled president of Venezuela, days after the Trump administration said it recognized Juan Guaidó, the 35-year-old opposition figure, as the country’s rightful leader. “I decided at the time, ‘no,’ because so many really horrible things have been happening in Venezuela when you look at that country,” Mr. Trump said. With his cabinet in flux, Mr. Trump dismissed as “fake news” the reports that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had asked Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state and his most visible emissary in negotiations with North Korea, to consider leaving to run for a Senate seat in Kansas. Mr. Pompeo confirmed that discussion over a week ago. The secretary of state said that he had appreciated the call, but that he had a “very full plate.” The CBS interview was broadcast during the president’s first visit in months to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, where he spent Saturday golfing with Tiger Woods and Jack Nicklaus. On Sunday, the president hit the golf course again amid planning for his annual Super Bowl party. The president told CBS that he loved to watch football, but that he would not encourage his youngest son, Barron, 12, to participate in such a dangerous sport. Emily Cochrane contributed reporting from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.", "id": "5c5725453a125f5075c07cd9", "date": "2019-02-03T17:30:12+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Some U.S. Lawmakers to See Less-Redacted Version of Mueller Report: Prosecutor", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Certain members of Congress will be able to see a less-redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report after the initial public release on Thursday of a more heavily edited version of the document, a U.S. prosecutor said on Wednesday. U.S. Attorney General Barr is expected to publicly release a redacted version of Mueller's investigation into suspected Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign and possible collusion between President Donald Trump's campaign and Russia.  Barr said he would blacken out secret grand jury information, intelligence-gathering sources and methods, information relating to active cases, and information could affect the privacy of \"peripheral third parties\" who were not charged. Jessie Liu, the U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said in a court filing on Wednesday that some U.S. lawmakers will be able to see a less-redacted version of the report. \"The Justice Department plans to make available for review by a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff a copy of the Special Counsel’s report without certain redactions,\" Liu said. \"The Justice Department intends to secure this version of the report in an appropriate setting that will be accessible to a limited number of Members of Congress and their staff,\" she said.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; editing by David Alexander and Grant McCool)", "id": "5cb79e4749f0eacbf1f851bf", "date": "2019-04-17T21:43:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "In Second Stint as U.S. Attorney General, Barr Faces Toughest Call on Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — On Aug. 29, 1991, William Barr had a decision to make.  Cuban inmates had seized hostages inside an Alabama prison in a bid to avoid deportation, and now they were threatening to kill them. Only 19 days into his job as acting attorney general, Barr ordered the FBI to mount a rescue mission. Before dawn broke the next day, the hostages were freed and the prisoners subdued. Barr's gamble had paid off. Three months later, he was confirmed unanimously by the Senate to serve as nation's youngest attorney general, the top U.S. law enforcement official. Barr, now 68, is \"not afraid to make decisions that fall into his areas of responsibility,\" said George Terwilliger, who served as Barr's deputy during his first stint as attorney general under President George H.W. Bush. Barr is back atop the Justice Department, appointed by Donald Trump after the Republican president fired Jeff Sessions as attorney general in November. Barr is facing a different type of high-pressure situation as he determines how much of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report on Russia's role in the 2016 election and contacts between Moscow and Trump's campaign should be made public. Department regulations give Barr broad authority to decide what to disclose and what to withhold. So far, all Barr has released since Mueller submitted the nearly 400-page report on March 22 is a four-page letter, made public two days later, describing the special counsel's main conclusions.  Barr wrote that Mueller had not concluded that Trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with Moscow. Barr also said he personally decided after reviewing the report that Mueller did not find enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice. That assessment has drawn sharp criticism from Democrats. In addition, some members of Mueller's team are spreading the word that they are unhappy with the way Barr characterized their work, according to media reports. The public is likely to get a greater look at the factors behind Barr's decision to clear Trump of obstruction of justice - Mueller had not exonerated Trump - and other investigative details when the attorney general releases a redacted version of the report, which he has promised by mid-April.  For some, that will be too late, considering that all the public knows about the findings in a 22-month inquiry that cast a cloud over Trump's presidency is the little that Barr has already disclosed. \"It is like fundamentally rigging the game before we know what the actual score is,\" said Harvard Law School professor Laurence Tribe, who worked with Barr on a telecommunications case in the 1990s. \"His integrity, his history, his reputation is shattered by what he has done. I have no idea what could have motivated him.\"  'AN IMPRESSIVE EFFORT' Others have said Barr made the right decision on the obstruction question, noting that it is difficult to prove that Trump committed criminal obstruction if Mueller did not find that he destroyed evidence or directly interfered with the investigation - even though he assailed the inquiry as a \"witch hunt\" and called the investigators partisan zealots. \"Trump made an impressive effort at creating an obstruction case against himself, but it's no easy task to obstruct an investigation where prosecutors do not believe there's an underlying crime,\" George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley said. Parts of the report are expected to be blacked out to protect information deemed sensitive. Barr, with Mueller's assistance, has spent weeks redacting material that might compromise ongoing investigations or intelligence-gathering sources and methods. Barr has said he is also removing material from grand-jury proceedings that by law can be made public only through a court order. Barr also may opt to redact portions that discuss people who were investigated but not charged such as Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. That would fit with longstanding Justice Department policy, but could draw criticism from Democrats who have said the public should know as much as possible about Trump campaign contacts with Russia during and after the 2016 election. Trump has said he will not use a legal doctrine called executive privilege, which allows a president to withhold information about internal executive branch deliberations from other branches of government, to block portions of the report. Barr has said he does not plan to submit the report to the White House for review.  \"Bill Barr is going to call it like he sees it,\" said Wayne Budd, who served as the Justice Department's third-ranking official during Barr's first stint as attorney general. \"I think he understands the role of the attorney general is not as a lawyer for the president,\" Budd added, \"but as a lawyer for the people of the United States.\"  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan and Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Will Dunham)", "id": "5cac818549f0eacbf1f81cfd", "date": "2019-04-09T11:25:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Part 1: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Andy Mills, Rachel Quester and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin The special counsel is said to be preparing to deliver a report on the results of the Russia investigation. What happens next? Monday, March 4th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today — [MUSIC] archived recording The Democratic National Committee is trying to solve a spy mystery. It began before dawn Saturday when five intruders were captured by police inside the offices of the committee in Washington. michael barbaro Throughout U.S. history — archived recording The tangled relationship between an Arkansas land deal, a savings and loan and Hillary Rodham Clinton’s former law firm is again under scrutiny today. michael barbaro There have only been a handful of investigations into possible criminal conduct by a sitting president. archived recording (bill clinton) I did not have sexual relations with that woman. archived recording Mr. Nixon says emphatically that the White House is in no way involved in the burglary and bugging of the Democratic headquarters, and he’ll have no further comment on that matter. michael barbaro And each time — archived recording Attorney General Kleindienst pledged a comprehensive unbiased investigation of the break-in at Democratic National Committee headquarters on June — michael barbaro An outside investigator has been appointed. archived recording Whitewater counsel Kenneth Starr has been granted permission to expand his investigation. michael barbaro And that investigator has to follow a set of guidelines, a set of rules to ensure they are both independent and accountable. archived recording This is a sacred process. This is not a witch hunt. michael barbaro And then, after each of these investigations, those guidelines have changed in response to the perceived flaws or excesses of the most recent investigation, in an attempt to improve them. archived recording Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is announcing the appointment of a special counsel. michael barbaro Now, the latest set of rules — archived recording Former F.B.I. director Robert Mueller will now lead the investigation. michael barbaro Are being really tested for the first time, as special counsel Robert Mueller prepares to release his report later this month. neal katyal Just got on. michael barbaro Thank you. Hey, I’m Michael Barbaro. It’s really great to meet you. neal katyal Hey, Michael, ditto. michael barbaro So we wanted to sit down with Neal Katyal, because he’s the person who wrote those rules. It’s Monday, March 4. Shall we start? neal katyal Absolutely. michael barbaro Neal, from your very informed point of view, what do you expect this report to actually look like? neal katyal So the first report that Mueller will send to the attorney general is supposed to be a summary of the investigation. And it’s supposed to detail the roads taken, the roads not taken, reasons why. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal And then there’s a second report, and that is the report that the attorney general, William Barr, is going to give to the Congress. I don’t think that the special counsel regulations envision the two reports to look the same. michael barbaro And why do you say “think“? Having written these rules, don’t you know exactly what they envision? neal katyal I think the best way of thinking about the special counsel regulations is to think about it a little bit, and not to sound grandiose, but like a constitution. You can’t anticipate all of the crises that are going to happen in the years to come in a dynamic republic. And so you don’t have hard and fast rules. You have some rules, and then you have the spirit and the animating principles behind them. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal The animating focus of the special counsel regulations is to restore what it calls public confidence in the integrity of the process. And then reasoning backward from that, what’s the best thing I could do as attorney general, when I’m writing this report, to help facilitate that public confidence in the administration of justice? If the crime is something very serious, of national security concern, like potential collusion with Russia, more is going to be important. If the crime is something that’s much more minor, less information is required. And to me, that means that more information is required rather than less when you’re dealing with the highest level of our government, the president of the United States, and potential wrongdoing. michael barbaro So you’re saying the guidelines will encourage the attorney general to give something quite comprehensive to Congress. neal katyal I don’t want to say it’s quite comprehensive. The regulations say that the attorney general is supposed to tell Congress the fact that the investigation’s concluded, some reasons why, and to detail any instances in which the attorney general or the attorney general’s predecessors, like Whitaker or Rod Rosenstein, who’s the acting attorney general, any instances in which they said no to Mueller. Now Barr can certainly go further and provide a lot of detail. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal I think if Mueller decides not to prosecute X, despite there being some evidence, or to prosecute Y, I think those are the types of things that have to be explained in this report from Barr to Congress. But are we going to get something like the Starr Report or the 9/11 Report that’s going to be a big coffee table document? I don’t think we’ll see that. michael barbaro And why is that? Why aren’t we going to get a coffee table-sized version of this? I think it’s what many of us have been expecting. Why isn’t a full report from Mueller what goes to Congress rather than the A.G.‘s report on the report? neal katyal When we wrote the special counsel regulations, we weren’t writing them in a vacuum. We were writing them after many, many pages dumped on Congress in the Ken Starr report about Monica Lewinsky and Whitewater. And that, I think, should concern all Americans, that you have a prosecutor really, I think, impinging on some of the most sensitive privacy concerns that human beings have. And so the requirements in the special counsel regulations are not written the way they were in the Independent Counsel Act, to provide every piece of information that was a concern. On the other side was also the need for public confidence. And so it’s going to depend on the case. In a case in which you’re dealing with private consenting activity among adults, you’re not going to really want to have the same level of detail as when you’re talking about, say, collusion with Russia. michael barbaro Got it. neal katyal And I think maybe to just take a step back and understand what’s going on, why is all this written this way, it’s written this way because of the kind of oldest fear that democracies have, which is who’s going to guard the guardians? Or if you are a Dr. Seuss fan, who’s going to be the bee-watcher to the bee watcher-watcher, and so on? michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal And here, the idea is that the attorney general is supervising this investigation into the president, which is remarkable, because who appoints the attorney general? The president. michael barbaro Right. neal katyal And the way to try and deal with that hornet’s nest is to say, look, we can’t take the attorney general out of the prosecutorial system. That’s what our constitution requires. But we can make sure that sunlight is shed upon the attorney general’s actions when supervising that special counsel. And so that’s why the reporting requirement exists. And that’s why it can’t be that it simply be a one-line, like, we’re closing the investigation, and nothing else. There’s really got to be an outline of the actions and the reasons for them. michael barbaro So given that the attorney general is a presidential nominee, works for the man who is under investigation, why should we trust that this person will follow the sort of broad outlines that you’re describing rather than firm rules that explicitly say what must happen? neal katyal In our constitutional system, there really is no way to force an attorney general to do something that he doesn’t want to do when it comes to a special counsel. Because after all, the special counsel regulations are themselves just the creation of the attorney general. They can be repealed by an attorney general at any time. michael barbaro Fascinating. neal katyal And so the idea behind these special counsel regulations is to just make it really difficult for an attorney general, a willful one, to interfere with an investigation. And so you outline the kind of concerns that an attorney general has to consider, like public confidence in the administration of justice. And then you hope for an attorney general and a confirmation process that ensures an attorney general whose character is such that the right thing will be done. We certainly anticipated that there’d be attorneys general who would act and be appointed in a political process. After all, we were all very well aware that, you know, Bobby Kennedy was John F. Kennedy’s attorney general. michael barbaro Right. neal katyal So it’s not as if we were unaware of the possibility of political attorneys general or ones who had family relationships and the like. But at the same time, in our constitutional system, there’s no way to remove the attorney general from the process. And so all we could do was try and shed sunlight into the decisions made by the attorney general. michael barbaro So let’s talk about how the sunlight process works. Once the A.G. report goes to Congress, what is in place to be sure that there is sunlight? neal katyal The special counsel regulations actually require the attorney general report to go not just to the majority in Congress, but also to the minority party. Here it doesn’t matter, because there is now a Democratic or cross-party House of Representatives. But had this happened a year ago or six months ago, we wouldn’t have been able to say that. So that’s step one. Step two is — in the special counsel regulations is a provision for public disclosure of the report not just to Congress, but to the American people. So in part nine of the regulations, it says the attorney general is to make a determination that the public interest would be served by public release of the documents. Now it’s clear to say there are applicable legal restrictions. So grand jury information can’t ordinarily be released to the public. But that’s the way it would work, is the attorney general would review the report that he’s written and say, yeah, I think this should be made public, or maybe there’ll be some redactions and then be made public. michael barbaro And what do you expect Congress to do with this report? And is that part of what you envisioned in your guidelines? neal katyal Absolutely. I think the answer to that really does turn on how much information is given to Congress, and does it look like a cover-up? If it does, if there’s stuff that Barr is not providing that looks really suspicious, then I expect Congress to start subpoenaing Mueller, Mueller’s team, the documents they’ve uncovered and who knows what else to try and get at what actually happened and find the truth out. michael barbaro Can you give me an example of what that might look like? What Congress might see in the report that the attorney general sends that would cause lawmakers to say, wait a minute. Something’s amiss, what’s going on? neal katyal Sure. So think about the firing of Jim Comey, the F.B.I. director. At first, the president’s statement was, I did it because Jim Comey was unfair to Hillary Clinton — michael barbaro Right. neal katyal — in criticizing her. When that story fell apart, the president ultimately admitted to Lester Holt, I did it because of Russia. And that’s what led to this whole obstruction of justice investigation. Can you fire the F.B.I. director because you’re upset that he’s investigating you? That’s something Mueller’s investigating. Suppose Barr writes a report to Congress that says, obstruction of justice, we decided not to indict the president, period. Doesn’t explain why. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal There would then be two possible big buckets of reasons why that decision could be made. One is the facts just weren’t there. Maybe they found that Trump didn’t have a corrupt intent. Maybe he wanted to do it for other reasons. Who knows? But the second bucket is what Bill Barr wrote in his 19-page memo to Trump when he was, some people say, campaigning for the job or whatever, which is to adopt a really pretty ridiculous legal theory, which was, the president can’t obstruct justice when he fires a cabinet official because, after all, presidents can fire cabinet officials for any reason. That’s generally right, but you can’t have a kind of corrupt motive. It’s just like, I have a laptop, and I can throw it into the river or set it on fire if I want, no problem. I have the right to do that. But if I know the F.B.I. is coming and looking for the laptop, and they have a warrant, I can’t go do those things. So same thing, the president can fire a cabinet-rank official generally, but he can’t do it in order to obstruct justice. And so if the Barr memo didn’t explain why to Congress he wasn’t pursuing a prosecution, then absolutely, that would be something in which it would raise every investigator’s hackles, and we’d have to get to the bottom of it. Let me give you another example. Suppose that Barr says, I’m not indicting the president for collusion with Russia. Doesn’t explain why. Again, there’s two possible reasons. One is, the facts aren’t there. The other is, under some of these old Justice Department opinions, a sitting president can’t be indicted. If Barr doesn’t tell us which, absolutely Congress and perhaps other investigators need to subpoena the documents to find out what actually happened here. michael barbaro Right. They should not just have to guess at the reasoning behind the attorney general’s decision. neal katyal Correct. And we’ve all been focused so much on the Mueller report and the Barr report, and those are undoubtedly important. But I think one thing to think about is how the Mueller and Barr reports set up a springboard to further investigations. Now there are multiple investigators. There’s the Democratically controlled House of Representatives and multiple committees therein. There’s the Southern District of New York and the campaign finance investigation they’re undertaking, as well as the investigation into the Trump Organization. And there are state attorneys general. So when Barr and Mueller write their reports, their audience is not simply Congress. And it’s not perhaps even just the American people. It’s also these other investigators. michael barbaro Hmm. neal katyal If they don’t do a good-enough job at explaining what they’ve done, and it looks like a cover-up, that’s going to fuel the fire of these other investigations. Then you’re going to have a kind of hydra of investigations with multiple different nodes. michael barbaro Hmm. neal katyal And that’s going to, I think, actually become even more worrisome for Trump than the current kind of single focus that we’ve had for many of the last months. michael barbaro So the less information that’s in it, the more likely these other investigations just multiply and intensify. neal katyal Right. Donald Trump has to be worried about winning the battle and losing the war — that is, getting a short report that maybe sides with him, and maybe sides with him in a brief way. michael barbaro Hmm. neal katyal Because that, more than anything, is going to raise the suspicions of Congress, of federal prosecutors in other offices and state attorneys general, and, ultimately, the suspicions of the American public. michael barbaro So counterintuitively, I mean very counterintuitively, the best thing for President Trump might be for Congress to receive not a short, nothing-much-there-to-report Mueller report, but a fairly comprehensive, somewhat damning, but not overwhelmingly so report. neal katyal That’s a beautiful summary. And I know it sounds counterintuitive, but in some ways, when you have that kind of very serious watchdog, it keeps you on your toes to be absolutely honest, but also really reassures the American public that there isn’t some shenanigan going on. And so sometimes the best protection you can have is actually to have a vigorous investigator. Obviously, Donald Trump has been afraid of that from the start. And the lingering question I think all Americans have is why. michael barbaro Are you concerned at all that if and when this report moves into this kind of, as you called it, hydra, many-headed model, that it also inherently kind of inevitably becomes more partisan, and therefore, it’s more open to criticism, more open to division, and that we might be better served if it were all completed through the process of a special counsel? neal katyal I think when we wrote the special counsel regulations, we really hoped that the special counsel would be the primary driver of the investigation. Because that would be someone who was chosen for their unimpeachable integrity. michael barbaro Mm-hmm. neal katyal You’re absolutely right to say as the investigation morphs into a variety of different nodes, you can’t guarantee that same level of stature of independence, of nonpartisanship. And things do become more political. But at the end of the day, I do think our founders really had it right — that sometimes, when you have overlapping jurisdiction, federal and state, and overlapping branches of government between congressional investigations and executive branch investigations, you actually do get at the right answer in the end, for reasons that James Madison said in Federalist 51: that people aren’t angels. And so if you can create overlapping investigative checks and balances, that it’s going to be cumbersome, it’s going to be frustrating, it’s going to be slow. But it is the way that we get truth in our system. michael barbaro Neal, I think listeners might hear that and think, oh, great. This has been a long, exhausting process, waiting for Mueller to finish this report. And it sounds like you’re saying, actually, this could really just be the very beginning. neal katyal I know everyone in America wants a quick resolution to this. I’m tired, everyone’s tired. But these are really hard investigations. I mean, independent counsel investigations go on year after year under the old regime. I remember when I came in in 1998, we had an independent counsel from the Reagan administration that was still acting. michael barbaro Hmm. neal katyal So this investigation in particular, because it involves counterintelligence and sources and methods and involves Russian documents and all sorts of people, it’s amazing to think, actually, that in 19 months, there have been 37 indictments and 199 counts. So I know that time delays are frustrating for everyone, but viewed in context, this has been one of the fastest investigations, not one of the slowest. [MUSIC] michael barbaro So Neal, having written the rules that will govern how this all plays out, in response to the last two big presidential investigations, do you suspect that when this is all over, we’re going to have to rewrite these rules yet again? neal katyal We just don’t know yet, because we’re living in it right now. We don’t know how the regulations have fared or not. We’ll have to see. michael barbaro And then we’re going to have you on and we’re going to ask you that question again. neal katyal I look forward to it. Thank you so much. michael barbaro Thanks, Neal. neal katyal O.K., bye-bye. michael barbaro On Sunday, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Jerry Nadler, said he would undertake an investigation involving dozens of individuals and organizations connected to President Trump that could eventually lead to his impeachment. archived recording (george stephanopoulos) Do you think the president obstructed justice? archived recording (jerry nadler) Yes, I do. It’s very clear that the president obstructed justice. It’s very clear. 1,100 times he referred to the Mueller investigation as a witch hunt. He tried to protect Flynn from being investigated by the F.B.I. He fired Comey in order to stop the Russian thing, as he told NBC News. He’s intimidated witnesses in public. archived recording (george stephanopoulos) If that’s the case, then is the decision not to pursue impeachment right now simply political? If you believe — michael barbaro In an interview with ABC’s This Week, Nadler said he has made no determination about whether to proceed with impeachment, but said he is convinced that the president obstructed justice, the same charge brought by Congress against President Nixon and President Clinton following independent counsel investigations into both. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher There have only been a handful of investigations into possible criminal conduct by a sitting president of the United States. Each time, an outside investigator has been appointed under a set of rules to ensure independence and accountability — and those rules have changed with each inquiry. Now, the latest set of rules is being tested as the special counsel, Robert Mueller, prepares to release his report. Listen to Part 2 and Part 3 of this series. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Neal Katyal, a lawyer who drafted the regulations that govern the special counsel investigation. Background reading: The special counsel is expected to deliver a report in coming weeks to the attorney general, who will then decide how much of the findings to share with lawmakers and the public. Read Neal Katyal’s Opinion piece on how the special counsel’s report could be the beginning of further investigation by the House and by other prosecutors. The Times examined the extent of President Trump’s public and private efforts to discredit the investigations that have consumed his presidency.  Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. “Part 1: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)” was produced by Andy Mills, Rachel Quester and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c7d058f49f0eacbf105b350", "date": "2019-03-04T11:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? Answers to 6 Key Questions", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The long-awaited special counsel report is complete, 675 days after Robert S. Mueller III was named to oversee the investigation into Russia’s election interference, whether  any Trump associates coordinated with that plot and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice. Attorney General William P. Barr has the document and notified lawmakers. But it has yet to be made public, and the path to its potential release — or the release of the facts it contains — is complicated. That remains to be seen. Some information is expected to come out because Mr. Barr has to update Congress, but that does not mean the entire report will be public. Mr. Barr sent a letter to the leaders of Congress’s judiciary committees that the special counsel investigation has been completed, which he is required to do, according to the special counsel regulation. Mr. Barr said that he was reviewing Mr. Mueller’s report and might be able to provide lawmakers with the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend. The regulation also requires that Mr. Barr tell the lawmakers whether he or his predecessors overseeing it opposed any significant step that Mr. Mueller sought to take. Mr. Barr said “there were no such instances” during the investigation. The special counsel regulation sets no time frame or deadline for when Mr. Barr must provide this information to Congress. Mr. Barr is required only to provide lawmakers with very basic facts. He would be operating within the guidelines of the regulation if he were to give Congress a bare-bones notification that Mr. Mueller had concluded his work. In his letter on Friday, Mr. Barr said he planned to consult with the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, and Mr. Mueller about what other details from the report could be given to Congress and the public. According to the Justice Department’s explanation of the regulation, published in the Federal Register in 1999, Mr. Barr has to determine whether releasing the report, or portions of it, is in the public’s interest. Mr. Barr has said repeatedly that he would release as much as he could from the report within the parameters of the special counsel regulations. But, first, Mr. Barr and his aides will have to review the report to determine whether any information is classified or otherwise sensitive, or protected by privacy laws or executive privilege, which can be invoked for sensitive law enforcement materials. The back and forth on what information Congress can and cannot have will most likely be drawn out and have to be resolved by a court. No. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has already called for the entire report, without redactions, to be provided to lawmakers. “Regulations governing Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation do not prohibit Attorney General Barr from disclosing Mueller’s final report and investigative materials to Congress,” Ms. Feinstein said in February. And the House overwhelmingly passed a resolution calling for the report to be made public — a largely symbolic move to pressure Mr. Barr publicly to release it. Democrats in the House have also already made the case that seeing the report in its entirety is critical to their ability to conduct oversight and determine whether to move forward with impeachment proceedings. “Congress could be the only institution currently situated to act on evidence of the president’s misconduct,” the chairmen of several House committees wrote in a Feb. 22 letter to Mr. Barr. Further, they wrote, Congress should decide what should be redacted in the report. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said that she does not support impeaching Mr. Trump without support from Republican lawmakers because it is too divisive for the country. Barring new shocking revelations about Mr. Trump, Democrats would prefer to beat Mr. Trump in the 2020 presidential election. Lawmakers have a few options to try to make public details of the investigation, though some could involve years of litigation. They could start issuing subpoenas to Mr. Barr, who could ignore them or refuse them. They could also subpoena Mr. Mueller’s testimony. The Justice Department is likely to resist those demands. If that happens, lawmakers could hold them in contempt and ask the United States attorney for the District of Columbia to prosecute. Lawmakers could also sue to try to force the Trump administration to hand over the requested material. Such litigation could go on for years. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. The White House could also try to negotiate with Congress, such as making some witnesses available, but not all, said Richard H. Pildes, a constitutional law professor at New York University Law School. The White House is also likely to challenge some requests and assert that the requested information is available to lawmakers through other means. Lawmakers can also use their bully pulpits to pressure Mr. Barr publicly for more information and tie up the Justice Department in hearings and subpoena fights that last for the rest of Mr. Trump’s time in office. That is not clear. Mr. Trump is Mr. Barr’s boss, and there is nothing to stop Mr. Barr from immediately sharing the report with the White House, Mr. Pildes said. But doing so would violate the Justice Department’s longstanding independence from the White House, said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard Law professor who ran the department’s Office of Legal Counsel during the George W. Bush administration. And if the Mueller report includes grand jury testimony, which is protected under federal law, the number of people permitted to see the report shrinks significantly. Mr. Trump, as president, would be permitted to see it in certain circumstances. For example, according to a 1993 opinion by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, grand jury information may be disclosed to the president if it relates to his role in helping the department decide how to enforce the law, or if it relates to a national security threat. In another Justice Department legal opinion, written in 2000, the president may have access to grand jury material if it is used as part of his consideration for a pardon. There has been a great deal of discussion about whether Mr. Trump would give presidential pardons to his former aides who have been charged in Mr. Mueller’s investigation, such as Paul Manafort, his former campaign chairman who was sentenced to a total of seven and a half years in prison in two cases. Even if Mr. Mueller and Mr. Barr know that what Mr. Trump is saying publicly is not true, there is no apparent legal duty for the Justice Department to correct the president. Unlikely. First, collusion has no legal definition, though it has become a term of art as a shorthand reference to the Russia investigation. A key question in the special counsel investigation concerns whether Mr. Trump or his campaign was coordinating with Russia to try to affect the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. If Mr. Mueller’s investigation ends without charging Mr. Trump or his aides with conspiracy, some may interpret that to be a “no collusion” finding. Mr. Trump consistently cites government officials and the lack of collusion charges as evidence that there was never collusion between his campaign and Russia. Charlie Savage and Katie Benner contributed reporting.  OpinionNoah Bookbinder OpinionThe Editorial Board", "id": "5c954e1049f0eacbf105e948", "date": "2019-03-22T21:03:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Nadler Says Congress Will Not Get Mueller Report Until After Barr News Conference", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said on Wednesday he has been told by the Justice Department that Congress will not receive Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia report until after Attorney General William Barr's 9:30 a.m. EDT news conference on Thursday. \"DOJ is informing us we will not receive the report until around 11/12 tomorrow afternoon — AFTER Barr’s press conference. This is wrong,\" Nadler said in a tweet.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)", "id": "5cb7aa3e49f0eacbf1f8522d", "date": "2019-04-17T22:34:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Part 3: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Lisa Tobin A conversation with Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, about how Congress is preparing for the results of the special counsel investigation. Tuesday, March 12th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Once the special counsel’s report has been released, it’s up to Congress and its oversight committees to determine what happens next. As head of the Judiciary Committee, much of that will fall to Representative Jerry Nadler. Part 3 of what to expect from the Mueller report. It’s Tuesday, March 12. archived recording (erin burnett) And good evening. I’m Erin Burnett. OutFront tonight: The biggest threat to President Trump. His name — and it’s a person — is Jerry Nadler. archived recording 1 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 2 Jerry Nadler. archived recording 3 Jerry Nadler of New York, the Democratic head of the House Judiciary Committee. archived recording (erin burnett) The committee with the power to lead impeachment proceedings against the president of the United States. archived recording 4 He is investigating, quote, “allegations of obstruction of justice, public corruption and other abuses of power.” archived recording 5 Democrats, led by House Judiciary chairman Jerry Nadler, are carpet-bombing the White House with document requests. archived recording 6 He is now facing a brand-new investigation, the widest since the launch of the Mueller inquiry. archived recording 7 This has given folks at the White House an idea of what they’re in for the next two years or so as Democrats lay the groundwork for 2020 and a possible impeachment. representative jerry nadler Testing, 2, 4, 6. Testing, 3, 6, 9. Testing, 4, 8 12. We can do the 5s. speaker Let’s hear it! [PHONE RINGING] michael barbaro Hello. Congressman? representative jerry nadler Hi. michael barbaro Hi. How are you? representative jerry nadler O.K. How are you? michael barbaro Good. Thank you again for making some time for us. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re quite welcome. michael barbaro So Congressman, over the last couple of weeks on “The Daily,” we’ve explained to listeners how the Mueller report will be released. It goes to the attorney general. The attorney general then releases a report on the report that goes to Congress. And we’ve explained that it will either say we have evidence the president committed a crime, or we don’t have that evidence. We wanted to talk to you about what happens when that report gets to you. representative jerry nadler We investigate further. The fact that he committed a crime is of great interest. It’s not necessarily a guarantee of impeachment. Those are two different tests, as you know. We have a responsibility well beyond the Mueller report. We have an obligation to do our own work. The Mueller report is only for what happened with respect to Russian interference in the election and with complicity by Americans in that interference and what crimes were committed and by whom. We have to be considerably broader. I mean, that’s part of our work, but our basic work is to provide for the rule of law, make sure that the rule of law is protected. That means that we have to look into obstruction of justice, into corruption, into abuses of power. And certainly what Mueller is looking into is part of that, but we have to be much broader. michael barbaro You said that a Mueller report that says the president committed a crime is not necessarily grounds for impeachment. Can you help me understand what you mean by that? What’s a scenario in which the Mueller report says the president committed a crime but wouldn’t equal impeachment, necessarily, in your mind? representative jerry nadler Well, you have to understand that not every crime is an impeachable offense, and an impeachable offense needn’t be a crime. There are two different tests. So for example, if the Mueller report were to show that the president committed perjury with respect to money laundering five years ago in some scheme in New York to cheat — I don’t know. That would not be impeachable, because impeachment is an abuse of presidential power for the purpose or with the effect of aggrandizing power to the executive, of damaging liberty or the structure and functioning of government, the separation of powers. That’s what’s impeachable. Also, corruptly obtaining an election would be impeachable. But crimes that don’t bear on that would not be impeachable. So I said 20 years ago that the president’s perjury about a private sexual affair was not impeachable. And if President Trump were to be shown to have perjured himself about some business deal, that would not be impeachable. But if he were shown to commit perjury or to do something else that affected the structure and functioning of government or democratic rights or the integrity of elections, that would be impeachable. michael barbaro So what do you do if the Mueller report says that the president committed a crime like money laundering five years ago but did not commit what you see as an impeachable offense? representative jerry nadler Well, if the president was shown to have committed a crime of money laundering five years ago, I would hope the New York — he should be prosecuted for that. michael barbaro In New York, right? representative jerry nadler Yeah, in New York, by the federal Southern District of New York or by the New York authorities or both, period. That’s the criminal justice system. Now the Justice Department maintains, wrongly in my opinion, that a sitting president cannot be indicted while in office, so they will not indict a president for committing some crime. I think it’s the wrong policy. I think they should be able to indict a president while he’s in office, but that’s not the real function of what we’re doing in our committee. Our committee’s job is not a criminal justice job. That’s up to the Department of Justice. That’s up to the New York state authorities. Our job is to protect the structure of democratic government and the liberties of the people. If the president committed a crime that has nothing to do with this, well, he ought to be prosecuted, but that’s not our business. We’re not a law enforcement agency. michael barbaro O.K., well, let’s flip this around and say the Mueller report finds that the president committed a crime that is absolutely grounds for impeachment. What do you do then? representative jerry nadler Well, we have to further investigate it. Let’s put it this way. We have to do all these investigations now that we’re starting to do focused on obstruction, corruption, abuse of the power structure, et cetera. If we find that the president is guilty of that, then we have to decide what we can do about it. Impeachment is one option. But impeachment is the decision to be made further down the road, and it’s a very high bar. But it certainly would be on the table if we were to find that. michael barbaro Do you know what the bar is in your mind? representative jerry nadler Yes, and I’ve said it many times. I think there’s a threefold test for impeachment, really. Number one, has the president committed impeachable offenses? Number two, are those serious? And if the answer to the first two is yes, I think there’s one further test, and that is impeachment cannot be partisan. What you don’t want to do is divide the country so that half the country thinks for the next 30 years, we won the election. You stole it from us. You don’t want to embitter the country. The situation has to be such that you believe when you start the impeachment proceeding that the evidence you have is so persuasive of such terrible deeds that once the evidence is laid out, an appreciable fraction of the voters who voted for Trump will reluctantly say you had to do it. You’re not just trying to steal the election. michael barbaro But the first two conditions you laid out — is it impeachable, is it serious — those feel quite subjective. So I wonder if any argument to impeach will inevitably feel partisan and therefore make your third — representative jerry nadler Any argument — michael barbaro — condition hard, which is consensus? representative jerry nadler — to impeach is going to be political. Impeachment is a political task, and it’s intended to be by the Constitution. Yes, it’s going to be subjective. All political decisions are subjective. I shouldn’t say that. Almost all political decisions are subjective. But if this occurs, people are going to be on both sides, and some people will think you’re fair, and some won’t. But you have to really depend on the facts that you have at that point. You have to have very strong proof of very dire facts. And by the way, let me just step back. I’m a little concerned that we’re talking too much about impeachment. Our goal is not impeachment. Our goal is what I said a few minutes ago, to protect the rule of law, to protect the structure and functioning of government, to protect our liberties. That’s the basic goal. And if we can do that without impeachment, fine. If we have to do impeachment and if we meet the requirements so that we think we can do it, also fine. michael barbaro Understood. I want to ask you about some of the comments you have made ahead of the release of the Mueller report. You were asked a question, and in your response you said that you believed the president obstructed justice. And I wonder why you would — representative jerry nadler Let me say the following. I think there is a lot of evidence the president obstructed justice, but we have to go a lot further. We have to know a lot more. michael barbaro But I wonder why you would say that publicly before the release of the Mueller report. What’s the value in doing that? Does it not inherently portray whatever investigation — representative jerry nadler Well, I believe in answering questions honestly. I was asked the question. I didn’t volunteer it. I was asked the question, and I said yes, I think certain things which — michael barbaro Right, and — representative jerry nadler — are in public view — michael barbaro — I like asking questions, but why not say, let’s wait until the Mueller report comes out? representative jerry nadler Well, maybe I should have, but the fact is I think certain things that are in the public record make a strong case that there was obstruction, and other people say the same thing. But a strong case is not proof. Actually, I shouldn’t say a strong case. A lot of evidence is a better way of putting it. That’s not necessarily proof, and certainly not enough to convince the country at this point, and we have to have a lot more evidence and a lot more facts, and we need to know what the Mueller report said, and we may need to know a lot more than what the Mueller report says. michael barbaro So re-asking the same question now that I think you were asked about 10 days or so ago, do you believe the president obstructed justice? representative jerry nadler I think there’s a lot of evidence that he obstructed justice, and Mueller will tell us a lot more about that, and that’s one of the things we have to know. michael barbaro Are you concerned — and I appreciate you saying that maybe you shouldn’t have said it — but are you concerned that people will see this as a preconceived judgment? I know that at least some of your colleagues, like Jim Jordan, do see it that way heading into these investigations. representative jerry nadler No matter what I say or do, they’re going to say that. It’s the Republican strategy to say I decided to impeach the president the day after the election. It’s just an intent to distract. We haven’t decided. I haven’t decided to impeach. Some people have said that when I say, especially that third requirement, that’s a very high bar — and some people have said it may be an impossible bar. It may be. The three tests that I have said I didn’t invent. When we had the Clinton impeachment and I was a junior member of the committee, the first thing I did was to try to get my hands on everything that’s been written from Blackstone onward as to what’s an impeachable offense. But the second thing I did 20 years ago was I demanded that before we held hearings of the committee on fact, that we first hold a hearing on what’s an impeachable offense. And even though I was a minority member of the committee, I persuaded people, and we did that. And so what I’ve been talking about is basically what I got from that. I didn’t make up this test. michael barbaro Well, Congressman, I do have to point out that you said that we were talking too much about impeachment, but now you are talking about impeachment. representative jerry nadler O.K., fair enough. But what I’m trying to say is we’re not focused on that. We will take the facts where they lead, and we’ll see. michael barbaro I want to stay with the topic of Mueller for a moment. You and your colleagues have held up Robert Mueller as a kind of gold standard of objectivity and fairness in all of this, as somebody who has the integrity, the background to kind of handle this properly. You have a lot of faith in him. Do you agree that there is basically no path to impeachment — sorry to use the word again — if the Mueller report finds no crimes? representative jerry nadler No, not necessarily. It depends what else we find. It depends what else is going on. There may be a lot of other things that we have to look into and that may be very damning. michael barbaro And as you said earlier, there is such a thing as an impeachable offense that is not a crime. Can you help us understand — representative jerry nadler Yes, they’re quite different tests. michael barbaro — what that might look like? representative jerry nadler O.K. An impeachable offense is not a crime. Well, misuse of the pardon power, for example, misuse of other powers of the presidency. It is not true, as Mayor Giuliani has said and as a lot of other people have said, that the president has the absolute right to do this, and therefore if he does this, it cannot be wrong. The president has the right to do certain things. michael barbaro Pardons, you mean. representative jerry nadler For example. The president has the absolute right to pardon anybody. But if the president was shown to pardon somebody in return for a $50,000 check, that would be a crime. It would also be an impeachable offense. michael barbaro Or to obstruct an investigation. representative jerry nadler Or to obstruct an investigation — in other words, if it were shown for a corrupt motive. So the motive is what counts in a lot of these things. michael barbaro So in November of 2016, right after President Trump was elected, you called for then-F.B.I. director James Comey to be forced out of his job because of how he handled the investigation of Hillary Clinton and his decision not to charge her with a crime yet still detail her wrongdoing for the public. We all remember that news conference and how that worked, and you called that unforgivable. If Robert Mueller says no crime has been committed when it comes to the president, would you, as head of the Judiciary Committee, still try to bring forward to the public the information behind the Mueller investigation? And if you were did you that, I wonder what’s different in your mind between what Comey did and what you would be doing? representative jerry nadler Yes. There’s a fundamental difference. The Justice Department has a very salutary general policy, and that is if you don’t indict somebody — why don’t you indict somebody? You didn’t have the evidence, obviously. You’ve investigated so and so. You’re not indicting her or him. You don’t comment negatively. You should, in a case of public notoriety, you should announce we’ve investigated. We’re not indicting him. That’s fine. But you have a policy, which the Justice Department does, that the president cannot be indicted no matter how much evidence just because he’s the president. Therefore we can’t comment on evidence against him or anything else. Then you’re converting a normally good policy into a cover-up, and you’re depriving Congress of its ability to hold the president accountable. You, the Justice Department, won’t hold him accountable because you’ve said you have no right to. You can’t indict him. That leaves only Congress, and now you’re going to deny Congress the right to the information. That makes the president unaccountable and above the law, and that cannot be. michael barbaro But just to be clear, if Mueller says no crimes, the public still needs to see the evidence regardless, because the rules are different here. representative jerry nadler No, the public needs to see the evidence, number one, so it can be confident that it’s true. We’ve tried to protect Mueller because by all accounts he’s an honest guy, et cetera, et cetera, and the investigation has to proceed. But whatever he says, we can’t take it on faith. We don’t operate that way. We shouldn’t take things on faith. And if he says the president has committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. If he says the president hasn’t committed crimes, we should know what the evidence is. And if the president hasn’t committed crimes but has done terrible things that he knows about, we should know that too. Or if the president has done nothing wrong, we should know that. The public has a great interest in the president, obviously. michael barbaro So I just want to be very clear on why the case of Comey is different from the case of Mueller in terms of using — representative jerry nadler Essentially because when he announced that he wasn’t indicting Hillary, it was because he thought there wasn’t enough evidence to indict Hillary, the normal reason you don’t indict somebody. If Mueller decides not to indict the president, then the public ought to know that and hear that and see the evidence on which he bases that. michael barbaro So I want to talk to you, Congressman, about the politics of all of this and what the path forward might mean for the Democratic Party, because, as you know, the Republican Party has stood solidly behind the president this entire time. They have not budged at all. If Robert Mueller says at the end of the day that no crimes have been committed by the president, but your committee and others continue to investigate the president, are you concerned that this will inflict even more damage and partisanship on an already pretty divided and highly partisan American public — representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly — michael barbaro — and maybe hurt the Democratic Party in the process? representative jerry nadler Not if we do it responsibly. Congress must hold the executive accountable. And that is with respect to crimes. It’s respect to bad deeds. It’s respect to corruption, et cetera, and it’s respect to policy. We have to provide the accountability, and we have to let the American people know what is being done in their names, and let them judge. michael barbaro But how do you explain to the American people, who are pretty exhausted by all this, why you’re going to keep pursuing an investigation after Mueller — representative jerry nadler Well, it depends what he says and how much he covers, and that will help determine how much we have left to do. And the answer is that we can’t rely on others to do the work for us. We have an obligation to do our own work. That’s why we were elected. And at the end of the day, the American people decide not the week after Mueller releases his report but election day next year whether we have acted responsibly or irresponsibly in a partisan or reasonable way. michael barbaro Well, would you put your belief in the need to pursue the facts over the short-term well-being of the Democratic Party if those two things seem to turn out to be at odds with one another and in conflict? representative jerry nadler I think it’s my constitutional duty to do so. michael barbaro This may sound a little corny, but in this moment, with everyone waiting for what’s next, what message do you want to give to Americans on what we can see as kind of the eve of the Mueller report? representative jerry nadler What message? That, one, we have an administration that has attacked the institutions of government and of liberty on which we depend on in fundamental ways, and we have to rein it in. We have to make sure that the separation of powers is maintained and that liberty and the rule of law is maintained, and that the Mueller report will give us hopefully a lot of information, but that Congress has to do the job we were elected to do. And that the administration has to understand that the American people elected a Congress that wants to hold the administration accountable, and we will do that, and the Mueller report will help us do that to a greater or lesser extent, but it’s fundamentally our job. michael barbaro Congressman, thank you for your time. We really appreciate it. representative jerry nadler You’re welcome. Take care. michael barbaro Cheers. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher Once the special counsel’s report has been released, it’s up to Congress and its oversight committees to determine what happens next. We spoke to the head of the House Judiciary Committee, who will have to make that decision. Listen to Part 1 and Part 2 of this series. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Representative Jerry Nadler, Democrat of New York. Background reading: The House Judiciary Committee has opened a new investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by President Trump and his associates in what could be the most perilous front to date for the president. House Democratic leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, have resisted calls to impeach Mr. Trump, seeing overlapping inquiries as a more damaging course of action against a president seeking re-election. Here’s a guide to the ongoing House investigations. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. “Part 3: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)” was produced by Rachel Quester, Alexandra Leigh Young and Jessica Cheung, with help from Paige Cowett, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c87837d49f0eacbf105c970", "date": "2019-03-12T10:00:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "For Trump and the System, Mueller’s Report Is a Turning Point and a Test", "full_text": " News Analysis After nearly three years of investigation, after hundreds of interviews and thousands upon thousands of pages of documents, after scores of indictments and court hearings and guilty pleas, after endless hours of cable-television and dinner-table speculation, the moment of reckoning has arrived. It will be a reckoning for President Trump, to be sure, but also for Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for Congress, for Democrats, for Republicans, for the news media and, yes, for the system as a whole. The delivery of Mr. Mueller’s report to the Justice Department on Friday marked a turning point that will shape the remainder of Mr. Trump’s presidency and test the viability of American governance. Washington has been waiting for Mr. Mueller’s findings for so long and invested in them so much that it may be hard for what he has delivered to live up to the breathless anticipation. But once released, the Mueller report will transform the political landscape, fueling calls for the president’s impeachment or providing him fodder to claim vindication — or possibly, in this live-in-your-own-reality moment, both at the same time. Democrats on Friday played down the notion that the report would be the final word, fearing that anything less than a bombshell would undercut their own drive to investigate Mr. Trump not only on Russia’s election interference but on the myriad other subjects that have drawn their attention. Mr. Trump, for his part, had engaged in a particularly manic Twitter spree lately, assailing the “witch hunt” and the “hoax” and everyone he blames for them, like his fellow Republicans John McCain and Jeff Sessions, in what some had interpreted as a sign of his own anxiety before the special counsel’s verdict. But he was reported to appear relieved with early reports on Friday. The fact that Mr. Mueller issued no further indictments as he wrapped up on Friday and never charged any Americans alleging criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia emboldened the president’s Republican allies, who promptly interpreted the results as exonerating him without having seen the report itself. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. Yet whatever the final conclusions, the Mueller investigation has already cast a cloud over Mr. Trump and his presidency. The special counsel has demonstrated that Russia intervened in the 2016 election with the goal of helping Mr. Trump, that the Trump campaign welcomed Russians promising incriminating information on behalf of their government about Hillary Clinton and that his advisers knew about stolen Democratic emails in advance. The investigation has demonstrated as well that Mr. Trump was seeking to do business in Russia even as a presidential candidate longer than he had previously disclosed and that he surrounded himself with crooks and liars in the form of advisers who repeatedly dissembled to investigators. That includes his campaign chairman, who is going to prison for that and a variety of financial crimes. Whether any of that adds up to impeachable offenses remained an open question. Mr. Trump has repeated the phrase “no collusion” so often — 71 times on Twitter, according to the Trump Twitter Archive, and many more in speeches, interviews and other public statements — that he effectively set the bar so that anything short of a taped telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia could be interpreted as vindication. [Read more: As Mueller report lands, prosecutorial focus moves to New York.]  Moreover, the president and his allies have raised enough questions about the conduct of his investigators to convince many of his supporters that the real scandal is the “deep state” trying to thwart the will of the democratic system by dislodging him from office. The people pursuing him, Mr. Trump argues, are motivated by partisanship or personal bias. He has complained on Twitter about the “witch hunt” 183 times, according to the archive, and many more in other settings, including to reporters on Friday morning before leaving the White House for a long weekend in Florida. A poll by USA Today and Suffolk University found that 50 percent of Americans agreed that Mr. Mueller’s inquiry was a witch hunt and that Mr. Trump had been subjected to more investigations than previous presidents because of politics. And yet the swirl of scandal around Mr. Trump extends well beyond Mr. Mueller’s inquiry, which was largely limited to issues related to Russia’s election interference and any efforts by the president or his aides to obstruct the investigation. Other federal, state and congressional investigations are looking into his various entities and allies, including his business, his inaugural organization and his foundation. Federal prosecutors in New York have already implicated the president in a scheme to violate campaign finance laws by arranging hush payments to keep two women from publicly discussing their claims to have had extramarital affairs with Mr. Trump before the 2016 election, affairs he has denied. Mr. Trump has also been accused of cheating on his taxes, violating the Constitution’s emoluments clause barring a president from taking money from foreign states, exaggerating his true wealth to obtain bank financing and other offenses. The sheer volume of allegations lodged against Mr. Trump and his circle defies historical parallel, possibly eclipsing, if they were all proved true, even Watergate, the nonpareil scandal of scandals. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] But none of the investigations has carried the authority or import of Mr. Mueller’s, in part because of his longstanding reputation in both parties as a straight shooter and in part because of the investigatory tools at his disposal. The assessment by Mr. Mueller, a lifelong Republican, decorated Vietnam War hero and former F.B.I. director under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, could go far, particularly with Republicans who may doubt other investigators. So at last some questions should be answered or at least addressed: Is there more to the story of Russia’s involvement in the election than is already publicly known? Did the Trump campaign cross lines that others have not before? Has the president used his power to improperly impede investigators? Or have Democrats assumed too much in their zeal to bring Mr. Trump down? Have journalists connected too many dots that do not really add up? Can there be conclusions that are widely accepted in such a polarized era? Some of the answers may start to become clear as soon as this weekend when Attorney General William P. Barr briefs congressional leaders on its principal conclusions. He will then have to decide whether to publicly release the report and, if so, how much. That will not be the end of the story, though, because Congress, at least the Democrat-controlled House, made clear on Friday that it will insist on seeing most everything. That could lead to a showdown between executive and legislative branches if Mr. Barr seeks to withhold parts of the report, one that potentially could be resolved by the third branch, the judiciary, in a constitutional showdown. No report has been as anticipated in Washington since September 1998, when the independent counsel Ken Starr delivered to Congress the results of his investigation concluding that President Bill Clinton had committed impeachable offenses, with boxes of evidence transported to Capitol Hill in a pair of white vans trailed by news cameras as if they were O.J. Simpson’s Ford Bronco. Mr. Starr, in his case, was obligated by the law creating his office to report directly to Congress, which then voted on a bipartisan basis to release his report sight unseen, much to the chagrin of many lawmakers once they saw its explicit description of the sexual encounters between Mr. Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky that formed the basis for perjury and obstruction of justice charges. Mr. Mueller, by contrast, operated under a different legal basis, reporting to the attorney general. But the question of what constitutes “high crimes and misdemeanors,” as laid out in the Constitution for impeachment, remains exclusively the province of the House, now as then in the hands of the president’s political opposition. Taking a lesson in part from the Clinton impeachment effort, which demonstrated that impeachment succeeds in ending a presidency only if it is bipartisan, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said she does not favor impeaching Mr. Trump because it would be divisive for the country, which she declared is “just not worth it.” In saying that any impeachment should be “so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan,” she was tacitly recognizing that while the Democratic House might vote for articles of impeachment, it would take at least 20 Republican senators to break with the president to muster the two-thirds vote required to remove him from office, which at the moment appears implausible. The real question, then, becomes whether Mr. Mueller has any evidence that is so damning, so definitive and so powerful that it changes that dynamic. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   ", "id": "5c955b5c49f0eacbf105e96c", "date": "2019-03-22T22:00:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Where’s the Mueller Report? Washington Barely Handled the Anticipation", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The president’s lawyer had no clue when the report might arrive, or if it even would. Seated alone amid the tourists at the Trump International Hotel a few blocks from the White House on Friday, Rudolph W. Giuliani scrolled through a tablet with one hand and held a cellphone in the other as he waited for the news that the long-awaited report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia, was done and had finally been delivered to the Justice Department. “Keep in touch,” he said to the person on the other end of the phone. “Tell me what’s going on, O.K.?” Like the rest of Washington, Mr. Giuliani was tired of waiting. “They said it was going to be at noon or 12:30,” Mr. Giuliani told a reporter who approached him around half-past 1 p.m. According to his sources — according to everyone’s sources — Mr. Mueller was late to deliver on a report that has enthralled the capital, bedeviled the president and, at times, enticed the nation. As the hours ticked by, it seemed as if the report might never come. But at some point during the afternoon, unbeknown to the curious public and TV camera crews, a security officer from the special counsel’s office arrived at the Justice Department to deliver the report to Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Within minutes, it was in the hands of William P. Barr, the attorney general. At 4:05 p.m., a thunderclap rumbled around the capital, and hail began to fall. Fifty-five minutes later the skies cleared, and it was announced that Mr. Barr had finally received the report. And by the time Mr. Barr was sitting in his office on the fifth floor of the Justice Department on Friday night, reading the report — he was among a few people, including Mr. Rosenstein, who had access to it — Mr. Giuliani, who had been in the dark for much of the day, had changed his tone. “We are confident the attorney general will make the right decision,” Mr. Giuliani said in a statement. “He has to consider the legal matters and rules. I’m confident he’ll make the right call.” [The special counsel has submitted his full report on Mr. Trump and Russia to the attorney general, who now must decide how much of it to release.] The assurance of the report’s delivery was the capstone to a day marked by just how little anyone really knew. Beginning in the early morning, reporters and photographers clustered around the office building just blocks south of the National Mall where the special counsel has offices. At least a half-dozen news cameras positioned themselves outside the building’s garage, hoping to catch a glimpse of Mr. Mueller driving his sensible Subaru into a colorless, bureaucratic-looking complex. “I have the report in my purse!” one woman joked as she walked by. At one point, as two of Mr. Mueller’s investigators left for lunch, they noticed the cluster of cameras and quickly turned to cross the street. By 2 p.m., an increasingly impatient group wanted a sign of something — anything — that could hint at Mueller-related activity a mile away at the Justice Department’s headquarters. Cameras flashed when two lead prosecutors investigating Mr. Trump for obstruction of justice — James L. Quarles III and Andrew D. Goldstein — left together in a BMW sedan headed in that direction. Rumors that had hatched about a noon report arrival were scuttled once Mr. Barr grabbed lunch in the department’s subterranean cafeteria. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Outside, a lone protester got in on the action. The man, who would identify himself only as “T. Pardy,” told a reporter that the special counsel investigation was “the fruit of the poison tree.” He then began to bang on a five-gallon bucket, screaming “FISA abuse.” Not everyone took such a theatrical approach to the wait. Newt Gingrich, an occasional adviser to the president who as the House speaker vigorously defended the work of Ken Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Bill Clinton, said that he had taken a laid-back approach to the report’s arrival. Mr. Gingrich said in an interview that the public should get the chance to see Mr. Mueller’s report once it was in Mr. Barr’s hands — with “obvious exceptions,” he added. Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing. “First of all, it may be interesting,” Mr. Gingrich said. “Second of all, it may actually tell us something.” A low-key approach was similarly adopted at the White House, starting with the president. “I have no idea about the Mueller report,” Mr. Trump told a cluster of journalists in the morning before boarding Marine One and departing for Mar-a-Lago, his winter retreat in Florida. As the day drew on, observers on Twitter began placing their bets about the report’s whereabouts, creating fictional explanations about Mr. Mueller’s activities. “Robert Mueller sweating in front of his laptop, staring at a Word doc containing only the words ‘The Mueller Report’ and a blinking cursor,” the comedian Patrick Monahan wrote on Twitter, trying his hand at fan fiction. At that point, not even Peter Carr, Mr. Mueller’s famously tight-lipped spokesman, could seem to resist the fun people were having. “Ha,” Mr. Carr wrote in response to an NBC reporter who sent along Mr. Monahan’s tweet. Back at the White House, a cluster of aides who remained in the West Wing area accessible to journalists turned off the television. They seemed more concerned with a flooding issue that had emerged from Thursday’s rains than the contents of the report, or when it might come. When it finally did come, the White House, which has led Trump supporters in a “witch hunt” chant at various points over the years, struck a relatively formal tone. “The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary, said on Twitter. “The White House has not received or been briefed on the Special Counsel’s report.” But there was one indicator that Mr. Mueller’s report was at least somewhere near the back of the president’s mind: Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer for the president in the special counsel investigation, accompanied him to Palm Beach. After top Justice Department officials in Washington looked through the report, Mr. Barr’s chief of staff, Brian Rabbitt, called Mr. Flood just after 4:30 p.m. to let him know that the department had the report, and gave Mr. Flood a readout of the letter that would be delivered to Congress. The letter contained important details, including the fact that Mr. Barr’s summary of Mr. Mueller’s key findings could be sent to members of Congress as early as this weekend. The letter also said that there were no instances when Mr. Rosenstein; Matthew P. Whitaker, the former acting attorney general; or Mr. Barr told Mr. Mueller that he could not pursue an investigative action. Back at the Trump International Hotel, the speculation began. As she tucked herself into a booth, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, told a reporter that she had no idea when the report would come out before an aide shut down the conversation. At the bar, a pair of state prosecutors in town from Florida were enjoying a glass of wine and watching coverage of the Mueller report on two large televisions — one tuned to CNN, the other to Fox News. “I’ve stopped being surprised at the allegations,” one of them, Bill Beaver, said, adding that he wanted to see what the report actually contained before making a judgment. “We base our jobs in facts.” Reporting was contributed by Annie Karni, Maggie Haberman, Michael D. Shear and Noah Weiland.    ", "id": "5c953abd49f0eacbf105e906", "date": "2019-03-22T19:41:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How Much Does the Mueller Report Matter for the 2020 Race?", "full_text": " On Politics With Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] Does the Mueller report matter? O.K., I’m being slightly provocative here. Of course it matters — for American democracy, for the Trump administration, and definitely for the 34 people Robert S. Mueller III indicted along the way. The fact that the president did not collude with Russians to pervert our democratic process is an outcome every American should cheer. And the White House is certainly right to be overjoyed: This is a victory for President Trump, lifting the fog of a special counsel investigation that had blanketed his presidency. But I would like to humbly submit that early reports of its influence on Mr. Trump’s re-election strength — or weakness — have been vastly overstated. I spent Saturday on the New Hampshire seacoast talking to Democrats about the Mueller investigation — a topic that did not come up at campaign events over the weekend, amid questions about health care, school shootings and climate change. When I asked voters why, the answer was almost always the same: Regardless of what the report said, they were sure Mr. Trump had done something wrong. Here’s how Jim Sullivan, a 72-year-old retiree, put it, after listening to Senator Amy Klobuchar at a town-hall meeting: ”I’d like to ask if she would support jail time for him.” Most Americans have already made up their minds about the president; it’s hard to see this report ushering a massive shift in public opinion. A recent Washington Post/ABC News poll found that only 5 percent of registered voters said they had no opinion about the president. A whopping 77 percent expressed strong opinions, on either side. In our hyperpartisan political world, the idea that the outcome of the special counsel investigation would dramatically reset dynamic of the 2020 race never felt particularly realistic. Are some Democrats deflated by the findings? Sure. But as Speaker Nancy Pelosi made clear a few weeks ago, impeachment under a Republican-controlled Senate was always a liberal pipe dream. Voters seem to recognize that: Polling by CNN last week showed that Democratic support for impeachment proceedings has fallen since the midterms. This report won’t significantly deflate their enthusiasm for defeating Mr. Trump. Are conservative Republicans bolstered by the findings? Of course. They see it as a vindication of an argument they’ve been making for months: Mr. Trump is the victim of a “witch hunt.” Attorney General William P. Barr’s positive interpretation of Mr. Mueller’s report will energize Mr. Trump’s base — but we are still 20 months from Election Day. A lot can, and likely will, happen with these findings in the next 588 days. The most significant political consequence of the Mueller report may be whether it sways those moderate Republicans turned off by Mr. Trump’s inflammatory style, particularly women in those suburban districts that sided with Democrats in 2018. We don’t know the answer to that question yet. But it’s fair to say that a lot of it will depend on how Mr. Trump handles the fallout from this investigation — and the myriad inquiries still being pursued by congressional Democrats and New York prosecutors. Can’t stop reading about this weekend’s bombshell? Peter Baker and Jonathan Martin analyze what it all means. We collect reaction across the political spectrum. And, here’s how Russia is receiving the news. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers. In today’s edition, readers sound off the movement to end the Electoral College. A large majority of responses were in support of ending the Electoral College, including this one from Gary Allen of Maryland: The presidential election should be based on the national popular vote. The House is gerrymandered, the Senate represents states regardless of population, the Supreme Court is appointed. At least one element of government ought to be based on “one citizen one vote.” A few readers wrote in to defend the Electoral College. Here’s a note we got from Edna Lampke: Only several states would decide the elections otherwise! Then the majority of America would stop voting altogether. Very unfair. Margaret Dickerson of Texas said a popular vote would make her feel like her vote actually counted: I support abolishing the Electoral College. I am a liberal Democrat and I live deep in the heart of Texas. Therefore my presidential vote literally doesn’t count. All votes should count. Sara Bhakti of Washington State wondered whether there was a third option: In a high school civics class, we were taught that the Electoral College protected the influence of states with smaller populations from the “tyranny of the majority.” That reasoning is compelling to progressive liberal me. I wonder what a truly fair system would look like — perhaps instant runoff voting? And finally, Ed Siebel of California reminded us that this debate is not exactly novel in the world of politics: In 1955-56, the topic in the NFL (you knew that’s the National Forensic League?) considered by high school debate teams was: “Resolved: the Electoral College should be abolished.” I ‘spect this has been considered in detail for some time prior to that, as well. If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ • The number of female solo travelers has skyrocketed. But amid the Instagram-worthy adventures are tales of violence, raising questions about how the world is greeting women who travel alone. • Despite full Democratic control over state government, a monthslong effort to legalize marijuana in New Jersey collapsed on Monday. •  This story from Westword talks to survivors of the Columbine High School shooting. Nearly 20 years later, they still live with the trauma of that day. ____________________ National Puppy Day was this weekend — in other words, an excuse to post a picture of my dog! _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c99580d49f0eacbf105efaf", "date": "2019-03-25T22:35:31+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Part 2: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett and Rachel Quester, and edited by Lisa Tobin We look at three possible outcomes of the special counsel investigation, which is believed to be wrapping up soon. Monday, March 11th, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: As the special counsel finishes his investigation, he can pursue three different paths — each one with a profoundly different impact on how Congress will proceed. Why recent history makes one of those paths especially treacherous. Part 2 of what to expect from the Mueller report. It’s Monday, March 11. Mike Schmidt, you are arguably the best-sourced reporter in Washington. When is the Mueller report going to come out? And what is it going to say? michael schmidt I don’t know, and I don’t know. michael barbaro (LAUGHS) No, but seriously — best guess? michael schmidt Best guess — sometime in the next month or so. But I don’t want to be in a position saying that, because a lot of our colleagues at other places have tried to put an end date on an investigation. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt And that’s a very dangerous place to be as a reporter. michael barbaro Yeah, I was just joking. michael schmidt I’m just — there’s no joking in special counsels. [MUSIC] michael barbaro O.K. So we know that the report will be coming out relatively soon. We don’t know precisely when — which is why, last week, we spoke to Neal Katyal, the guy who wrote the special counsel rules that have been guiding Robert Mueller. And he talked to us about the form and the size that this report would take. And I want to talk to you, Mike, about its actual contents and conclusions. What are those likely to be? michael schmidt So the president is being investigated for whether he obstructed justice or has been a witting or unwitting agent of Russia. So there are three possibilities. The first possibility is that the report could say he broke the law — that he either obstructed justice or is indeed an agent of this foreign power. michael barbaro And if that’s the case — that Mueller recommends charging the president with a crime, which would be a very big deal — what would happen next? michael schmidt The attorney general, Bill Barr, would have to decide whether to take the extraordinary decision of indicting the president or to follow Justice Department policy, which says that a president should not be indicted while they’re in office. It’s hard to imagine a scenario which Barr doesn’t follow the policy. michael barbaro Which says do not indict the president. michael schmidt Correct. If that’s what they conclude, they also believe that the only place to deal with wrongdoing by the president is Congress. So that information, that evidence against the president, needs to go to the House. michael barbaro O.K. So in that scenario, the special counsel makes the case that there’s sufficient evidence to charge the president, and yet the attorney general, because of a legal interpretation he has, will not want to bring such a charge against the president. And from our conversation with Neal Katyal, we know that that information — to charge or not to charge — will have to be laid out to Congress. And Congress will receive that information from the attorney general. So then what happens? michael schmidt The Democrats in the House would take it, and they’d say, oh, my gosh. Bob Mueller wanted to indict the president. We are going to take this and begin impeachment proceedings. It’s hard to see Mueller saying the president broke the law and the Democrats saying, O.K., we’re going to take a pass here. michael barbaro Especially if they feel that such a charge was impeded in your scenario by the attorney general. michael schmidt There was a good little episode that occurred around this several weeks ago that I thought gave us great insight. BuzzFeed posted their story that said that the president had asked Michael Cohen to lie to Congress. michael barbaro Right. michael schmidt Big deal, anonymously sourced — within an hour or two, members of the House, leading Democrats, are talking about impeachment. That was the reaction. Now, we know the BuzzFeed story becomes a whole different thing. michael barbaro Complicated, unproven. michael schmidt Complicated, et cetera, knocked down by Mueller — but you think if the House of Representatives, the Democrats there, are told by Mueller, I think the president broke the law, that they’re not going to move towards impeachment? If they were willing to move towards impeachment based on an anonymously based story, you think that with all the weight they had put into Mueller — they have held Mueller up in such high esteem for two years, done all these things to try and protect him — that they won’t move as quickly as possible in that direction? Look, we’re trying to predict the future here, which is difficult. But I don’t see it turning out a different way, at least at this point. michael barbaro O.K. So in this scenario with a report that says the president committed crimes, it would give the Democrats license to investigate everything that they have said that they want to investigate, even beyond the limited scope of the Mueller investigation — all seemingly in an effort to get to impeachment and the removal of the president from office. michael schmidt Look, the Democrats are going to investigate the president regardless of this. What a Mueller report saying the president broke the law would do is give the political wind directly at the back of the Democrats and push them hard in an impeachment direction, but also put pressure on Republicans. That’s the difference. It will push Republicans in a way that we haven’t seen before. And the other thing — Republicans have hung with the president throughout all of this. They have seen how he has behaved for the past two years, and they’ve said, we’re O.K. with this. So maybe they’ll continue there, but a strong Mueller report would be the greatest test of that that we’ve seen. michael barbaro So that is the brightest possible green light for House Democrats to dig and dig and proceed with their investigations. michael schmidt Correct. [MUSIC] michael barbaro O.K. That is the first possibility for how this proceeds. What is the second possibility, Mike? michael schmidt Mueller says, I’ve investigated for nearly two years and have found no evidence that the president broke the law or that he’s an agent of a foreign power. And Mueller’s investigation could have found very unsavory political things about the president, but that doesn’t mean he broke the law. And we don’t have enough evidence to clear that high bar of proving that the president broke the law. And here are my findings. michael barbaro So essentially not enough evidence to charge — no charges? michael schmidt Best outcome for the president. michael barbaro And what are the implications of that from Mueller for the Democrats in Congress? michael schmidt That type of ending of the investigation would be very, very damaging to the ambitions of the Democrats to fully investigate the president and impeach him. It takes all the wind out of their sails, because here they are — have said, we will wait until we see Mueller’s report before moving forward with something like impeachment. We need to see what Mueller found. And O.K., here’s Mueller’s findings. He doesn’t have any evidence the president broke the law. That really hurts the Democrats’ argument that they need to spend all of their time and energy looking into his conduct. michael barbaro But Mike, the Democrats are investigating the president beyond what Mueller was looking into. So I wonder about all the other lines of inquiry — the ones about the Trump Organization, campaign finance, hush money payments, all the stuff, for example, that the Southern District of New York is looking into. michael schmidt Correct. There’s still all sorts of questions about the campaign, about the inaugural committee, about the president’s business dealings, about the president’s daughter and son-in-law’s security clearance. So there’s rich areas to be looked into. But I don’t think those investigations will move forward with the same fervor and potential support from the average American or Republican that those types of inquiries definitely need to happen. And part of that is because the Democrats have put so much emphasis on Mueller. The Republicans have showed that they are going to stick with Donald Trump based on the current political atmosphere. So if Mueller says, there’s nothing here to be seen, then the Republicans — we know where they’re going to be. They’re going to be standing next to the president. michael barbaro So in that case, do you expect the Democrats would proceed with these investigations, but they would kind of limp along and there wouldn’t be a ton of political support for anything approaching impeachment, no matter what is found? Or is it possible these investigations would literally just start to shut down? michael schmidt I don’t think they shut down. I think that they limp along, because the Democrats will still have a base that thinks that Trump has done a lot of things that are terrible. And there will be pressure on them to continue to press. Democrats will say, Mueller may not have enough evidence to show the president broke the law, but we know that he has abused his power and done X and Y and Z. And they’ll go on and on and on, and they’ll say we can not ignore this. michael barbaro So if the answer is no crimes from Mueller, the Democrats and the Republicans basically will proceed as they have been proceeding, but the Democrats will have a much harder road to travel in their pursuit of investigations and potentially impeaching the president. michael schmidt I think they’ll be less interest from the public, because the public will say, O.K., we know there’s been this investigation for the past two years. We think it was done by this guy that everyone seems to trust. He found that the president didn’t break the law. So why are all these other investigations going on? You have to think of it from the view of the person who hasn’t been following every whiff and blow of this. Well, what about the security clearance for Jared Kushner — and from the average perspective, they’ll say, look, all this stuff was looked at. It’s nothing here, so why am I still paying attention to this? [MUSIC] michael barbaro So Mike, what could possibly be the third option? Because in our legal system, when it comes to the special counsel, there only seems to be two options — charge the president with a crime or not charge the president. michael schmidt For lack of a better term or to make up a term, I would call it the Comey hybrid. michael barbaro What is — (CHUCKLES) what is the Comey hybrid? michael schmidt Let’s go back to July of 2016. archived recording (james comey) Good morning. michael schmidt The F.B.I. director at the time, James Comey, holds a surprise press conference. archived recording (james comey) I’m here to give you an update on the F.B.I.‘s investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email system during her time as secretary of state. michael schmidt To say to the public, here’s what we found in our investigation. archived recording (james comey) This is going to be an unusual statement in at least a couple of ways. First, I’m going to include more detail about our process than I ordinarily would, because I think the American people deserve those details in a case of intense public interest. michael schmidt Laying out that classified information had been found in Clinton’s emails. archived recording (james comey) There is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information. For example, seven email chains concern matters that were classified at the top-secret special access program at the time they were sent and received. michael schmidt That she had been careless in how she handled national security secrets. archived recording (james comey) There is evidence to support a conclusion that any reasonable person in Secretary Clinton’s position, or in the position of those with whom she was corresponding about those matters, should have known that an unclassified system was no place for that conversation. michael schmidt But that at the end of the day — archived recording (james comey) Although there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case. michael schmidt It didn’t meet the high bar of indicting her. archived recording (james comey) We cannot find a case that would support bringing criminal charges on these facts. michael barbaro So a Comey hybrid is to come out and say no charges are going to be filed against the subject of an investigation, but here are all the things we found. Here are all the implications — essentially not prosecution, but a kind of scolding. michael schmidt It’s not even about scolding. It’s — we’re not going to charge, but I’m going to give you a rare look underneath the hood. archived recording (james comey) Our investigation looked at whether there is evidence that classified information was improperly stored or transmitted on that personal system in violation of a federal statute that makes it a felony to mishandle classified information, either intentionally or in a grossly negligent way. michael schmidt This was a very big-time investigation that the entire country has been paying attention to. If we stand up here and say we’re not going to charge a crime, then the public will not take it seriously unless we show them our homework. And here is our homework. archived recording (james comey) F.B.I. investigators also read all of the approximately 30,000 emails that Secretary Clinton provided to the State Department in 2014. michael schmidt That a Justice Department, which is controlled by one political party or the other, needs to be more forthcoming about what they have found to make the argument to the average person that their decision has been based on the evidence and not political favor. archived recording (james comey) I know there will be intense public debate in the wake of this recommendation, as there was throughout the investigation. What I can assure the American people is that this investigation was done honestly, competently and independently. No outside influence of any kind was brought to bear. I know there were many opinions expressed by people who were not part of the investigation, including people in government, but none of that mattered to us. michael schmidt He thinks a storm is coming from the Republicans who control Congress at the time. And he’s trying to inoculate the F.B.I. from that by saying, here’s what we found, here’s why we decided what we did — because he thought that he could use the facts of what they found as a shield to explain his decision. michael barbaro And how likely is Mueller to replicate that model? michael schmidt My guess is highly unlikely. michael barbaro Why? michael schmidt Because Jim Comey has been blasted for what he did in that press conference and painted as someone who was using a criminal process to dirty up Clinton politically — that in this country, the Democrats would argue, you should not use a criminal process to undermine someone politically. And that’s what his press conference did. michael barbaro So the conclusion was that it was an unnecessary, kind of gratuitous sullying of Hillary Clinton, even though there was no evidence she had committed a crime. michael schmidt Correct. They’re saying if the F.B.I. investigated the average American and found that that person had not committed a crime, we don’t then stand up and say, hey, look at all the unsavory things they did — which we didn’t think rose to something they should be charged with. michael barbaro Right, because Comey could have just come out and said, we’re finished. There are no crimes. Thank you for coming. See you soon. michael schmidt Correct. But Comey’s argument was if I had not done that, no one would have taken the decision seriously. michael barbaro So you think that because of what Comey did and the reaction to it, Robert Mueller is very unlikely to make the same decision. He won’t employ the Comey hybrid, as you have deemed it, and instead we’ll probably get a pretty black-and-white Mueller report. It will either be crimes or no crimes — not some hybrid where the homework is shown. michael schmidt If we’re sitting here trying to predict the future of an investigation we have little insight into, sure. michael barbaro O.K. [MUSIC] Mike, so far we have been talking almost exclusively about Mueller’s assessment of President Trump himself. But as we know, Mueller has been investigating the entire apparatus around the president, and he has already indicted dozens of people. So I wonder if in this final report, the biggest finding may not be about the president, but about the people close to him. For example, he could find that President Trump’s sons have committed some kind of crime — his lawyers, people who work at the Trump Organization. michael schmidt I’m not sure what that would change politically, though. michael barbaro Tell me what you mean. michael schmidt The president’s former national security advisor, campaign chairman, deputy campaign chairman, personal lawyer have all been indicted — all people closely associated with him, closely associated with the campaign, closely associated with crimes. And that didn’t move Republicans politically on the president. So why would more drops in that puddle make a difference? Do you think there’s a tipping point? Is there a straw that you think that would break the Republicans’ back on this? I think that straw is evidence that the president broke the law. I don’t think it’s more evidence that others around the president broke the law. michael barbaro So it really only matters whether Mueller recommends bringing charges against the president? michael schmidt In my assessment, based on what we know, I think that makes the most sense. michael barbaro Which is kind of fascinating, because we have been waiting 22 months, and what you’re kind of suggesting here is that, in the end, all these other indictments, all these other charges, all these other characters — those may end up being kind of irrelevant when it comes to the politics surrounding the future of this investigation if the president is not charged. michael schmidt We already know so much. President’s personal lawyer has pled guilty twice in two separate investigations involving the president. President’s former campaign chairman has been charged two separate indictments. michael barbaro Paul Manafort. michael schmidt So why would more of that be any different? I don’t think that’s the factor that drives this story forward in a different direction. michael barbaro But isn’t there a world, Mike, where Democrats in Congress decide they don’t really care about the political winds. They don’t really care whether Republicans think their investigation is legitimate. They don’t really care what the public may think about the investigation. They put their heads down. They keep investigating. And because the scope of their investigation is much broader than that of Robert Mueller, they find something very significant, very damning, and it leads to a political process that could lead to impeachment. michael schmidt Yeah. And they impeach him in the House, without the political backing of Mueller saying the president broke the law, and it goes to the Senate, and no Republicans come along. And it dies. And Donald Trump runs on, look at the witch hunt that impeached me in the House. And they couldn’t get it done in the Senate, and here I am running for re-election in 2020. They arm him with the ability to say, look at what they did to me. [MUSIC] And you have to remember that, of course, there’s stones out there that Mueller may not have looked under, but ultimately, Congress does not have the powers that Mueller had for his investigation. Mueller had a grand jury. He could use wiretaps. He could dip his hands into whatever the intelligence community had. Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and his investigators have a limited subpoena power, and they’re seen as political investigators. So it’s hard to think that if Mueller, in nearly two years of rummaging around Trump’s life, didn’t find it, that Nadler will. michael barbaro Thank you, Michael. michael schmidt Thanks for having me. michael barbaro On tomorrow’s “Daily,” a conversation with Representative Jerry Nadler. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher As the special counsel finishes his investigation, he can pursue three different paths — each with a profoundly different effect on how Congress will proceed. Recent history makes one of those paths especially treacherous. Listen to Part 1 and Part 3 of this series. On today’s episode: Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The New York Times. [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] Background reading: Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced to 47 months in prison. Many saw the sentence as a glaring example of the leniency that wealthy white-collar criminals often receive.  Mr. Manafort’s sentencing and the congressional hearings of Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former personal lawyer, have highlighted continued questions about how Mr. Trump might use his pardon power. The 81 document requests dispatched to Mr. Trump’s associates last week by the House Judiciary Committee detailed the breadth and ambition of Democrats’ new investigation.  Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. “Part 2: What to Expect When You’re Expecting (the Mueller Report)” was produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett and Rachel Quester, and edited by Lisa Tobin. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5c8631ff49f0eacbf105c64e", "date": "2019-03-11T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Brexit, Sackler Family: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " Let us help you start your day.  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  President Trump and Republicans go on the offensive, British Parliament grabs control of the Brexit process, and Copenhagen puts up a fight against climate change. Here’s the latest:  As the president declared victory in the wake of the Mueller report, he and Republican allies vowed to pursue and even punish those responsible for the Russia investigation. He called his adversaries “treasonous” and said they should be investigated. “Those people will certainly be looked at,” he said. Many of his allies agreed, while Democrats weighed whether to shift their focus entirely. Republican response: Senator Lindsey Graham, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, announced that he would investigate whether there is any anti-Trump bias at the F.B.I. and Justice Department, and called for a new special counsel inquiry to look at the origins of the last one.  Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign also lobbied television networks to blackball Democrats who advanced the collusion theory. Democratic response: While many 2020 candidates have demanded the release of the Mueller report in full, some top Democrats are urging them to instead focus on issues like immigration, tax policy and health care. Britain’s Parliament took control on Monday of the government’s efforts to leave the European Union, inflicting on Prime Minister Theresa May a rebuke not suffered by any recent predecessor. After months of deadlock, lawmakers passed an amendment giving themselves the power to vote on alternatives to the government’s Brexit plan. Members of Mrs. May’s cabinet openly discussed contradictory Brexit policies, and rumors swirled of a plot to replace her.  What’s next? Several of Mrs. May’s Conservative Party lawmakers called on her to name a date for her departure from power. She has already said she will not lead the party into the next general election, which is due to take place in 2022. Britain will remain in the E.U. at least until April 12. What happens after that is anyone’s guess. The alternatives: Options include a “soft Brexit” that would keep Britain tied into European economic structures; a second referendum that could potentially revoke Brexit completely; and leaving without any deal.  A family that has funded some of the world’s most renowned art institutions is being turned away by many of those museums amid outrage over its links to the opioid crisis.  Members of the Sackler family own Purdue Pharma, the maker of the frequently abused painkiller OxyContin. While the drug’s potential for abuse has been known for two decades, only recently has Purdue’s controlling family come under intense scrutiny.  Several museums, including the Tate museums in London and the Guggenheim in New York, have rejected any future gifts, concluding that some family members’ ties to the opioid crisis outweighed the benefits of their six- and sometimes seven-figure checks. The Sacklers’ reach: Exhibitions and institutions funded by the family can be found at the Louvre in Paris, the Old Royal Naval College in London, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, Columbia University and Oxford University.  Background: Documents submitted in court this year suggested that family members had directed company efforts to mislead the public and doctors about the dangers of abusing the drug, accusations that the Sacklers have denied. The Danish capital wants to cancel out its greenhouse emissions by 2025.  If it manages the remarkable feat, it will be a model for other urban governments on a warming planet. It would require changing how people get around, how they heat their homes and what they do with their trash.  Climate change is a top voter issue among Danes. Mayor Frank Jensen of Copenhagen, a city of 624,000, said that city leaders, more than national politicians, felt pressure to act. “We are directly responsible for our cities and our citizens,” he said. What it means for the world: Half of humanity now lives in cities, and the vast share of planet-warming gases come from cities. They are both a problem and a potential source of solutions. Context: Copenhagen has already cut its emissions 42 percent from 2005 levels. Forty-three percent of the city’s population commutes to work and school by bike.  Boeing: During flight simulations recreating the problems with the doomed Lion Air plane, pilots discovered that they had less than 40 seconds to override an automated system on Boeing’s new jets and avert disaster. Germany: The country’s second-richest family discovered a past connection to Nazis. The Reimann family, which controls JAB Holding Company, commissioned a historian to dig deep into company archives and discovered that two former owners were Hitler supporters who condoned the abuse of forced laborers. Accidental landing: A British Airways flight to Germany landed in Scotland instead on Sunday, leaving passengers perplexed. The airline said the company that chartered the plane had submitted the wrong route to air traffic controllers.  Israel: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cut short a trip to the U.S. after a rocket launched from Gaza struck a house in central Israel. The strike left seven people injured, including two children. Apple: Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon helped the technology giant unveil its new streaming service, Apple TV Plus, which is set to be introduced in 100 countries this fall. Apple also unveiled Apple News Plus, a news subscription service that will offer access to 300 magazines. Turkey: Turkey’s banking regulator said it would begin an inquiry into JPMorgan Chase over accusations that the bank provided “misleading and manipulative” investment advice that the regulator said prompted a run on the Turkish lira last week.  Traffic: New York is poised to become the first U.S. city to introduce congestion pricing, which would introduce tolls for drivers entering Manhattan’s busiest stretches. The idea aims to reduce gridlock, air pollution and pedestrian injuries.  Plant-based healing: Horticultural therapy is used in hospitals, addiction treatment centers, prisons and teen wilderness therapy programs It can involve propagating plants and arranging flowers, and can promote mindfulness and help patients through tough physical therapy.  Tips for a more fulfilling life. Recipe of the day: French onion soup is a familiar classic, but what about French onion grilled cheese? The best opportunities for career development aren’t always in the most influential places. Try finding an outfit that’s on the way up and that offers opportunities to accumulate new skills and social capital, and expand along with it. Love your hotel room? Some have become shopping showrooms, allowing guests to take a piece of the vacation home. Today is the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Egypt-Israeli peace treaty, a direct offshoot of the 1978 Camp David accords. The landmark accords were hashed out in tense talks at Camp David, the rustic presidential retreat in the Catoctin Mountains of Maryland. President Jimmy Carter carried messages and proposals between the cabin of Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and that of President Anwar Sadat of Egypt. The retreat as a vacation spot captured the affection of President Franklin Roosevelt, but not of all his successors. Barack Obama preferred visiting Hawaii or Martha’s Vineyard, Mass. President Trump goes to his clubs in Palm Beach, Fla., and Bedminster, N.J., rather than Camp David. “It’s nice. You’d like it,” Mr. Trump once said of Camp David, adding, “You know how long you’d like it? For about 30 minutes.” Still, the Navy maintains Camp David as an active military base, ready for a president who will once again routinely make the 30-minute helicopter ride from the White House. Mark Landler, a White House correspondent who has visited Camp David, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic ", "id": "5c99ad5c49f0eacbf105f048", "date": "2019-03-26T04:39:29+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Has Washington Spinning (and It’s Not Even Filed)", "full_text": " Washington Memo WASHINGTON — Television crews have been positioned outside the offices of the special counsel, the federal courthouse and, at least before they were asked to leave, the McLean, Va., home of the new attorney general, William P. Barr. Lawmakers on Capitol Hill are so desperate for hints that they are asking aides to call Justice Department contacts to beg for morsels. Publishing houses are scrambling to produce instant books of the findings. Newspapers are deploying small armies of reporters. At bars, restaurants, cocktail parties and street corners, people are asking one another the same question. When is it coming out? Washington — jittery, full of rumor, like a becalmed ship in the dead air before a coming storm — is waiting for the report of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016 election and whether President Trump or his aides conspired in the effort or obstructed justice. It may or may not be the report of the century, it may or may not be ready soon, and it may be only a few pages long. But it is unquestionably one of the capital’s most anticipated documents since the Starr Report on President Bill Clinton arrived by the truckload on Capitol Hill in September 1998. Real information — actually, any information at all from Mr. Mueller’s astonishingly leak-free team — is almost nonexistent. “The folks who know aren’t talking, and the folks who don’t won’t stop,” said Antonia Ferrier, the former communications director for Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. The result is energetic spinning from both parties, who have stepped into the void to try to frame the next chapter of Mr. Trump’s presidency. Democrats, worried that Mr. Mueller’s report will be a dud, are now casting it as one step in their coming investigations of a presidency flush with accusations of wrongdoing. They say the House, which they control, has a duty to conduct oversight, regardless of what the special counsel concludes. “I have the utmost respect for Mr. Mueller; I am accepting of whatever he brings,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee. “But that cannot be the end of it.” As they wait, House Democrats are playing down talk of impeachment in favor of new congressional investigations that can absorb Mr. Mueller’s findings and provide continued scrutiny if the president is cleared. Their topics are familiar: Russian contacts, obstruction of justice, abuse of power and a scheme to buy the silence of a pornographic film actress who claimed an affair with Mr. Trump. “The mission of the House of Representatives is very different than Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation,” said Representative Ted Lieu, Democrat of California and a member of the Judiciary Committee, the body where any impeachment proceedings would begin. Mr. Lieu said House Democrats would reject the premise that Mr. Mueller’s clearing Mr. Trump of personal coordination with the Russians would amount to any broader exoneration. “Just because he is cleared of one,” Mr. Lieu said, “doesn’t mean he is cleared of nine other ones.” The president and his allies are continuing to label the investigation an overreach — Mr. Trump prefers to refer to it in all caps as a WITCH HUNT — and have kept the bar for wrongdoing very high. Outwardly confident that Mr. Mueller will not find evidence of a conspiracy between Mr. Trump and Russia, they have routinely sought to reduce Mr. Mueller’s investigation to a single term — “collusion” — or bust. Anything short of that, including a charge of obstruction of justice, they insist, would justify having the whole inquiry dismissed. “If Mueller could not find anything with his overzealous but skilled, relentless investigators, the F.B.I., a grand jury and a discipline which is unknown to a congressional group, then multiple House Democratic committees will not be a search for the truth but a forum to launch attacks on the president,” Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, wrote in a text message over the weekend. As for acts that could be called obstruction of justice, Mr. Trump was rightfully exercising powers granted by the constitution, Mr. Giuliani added. As the president left the White House for Alabama and then his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida last weekend, he made his confidence known. “Keep the hoax going,” he told reporters before heading into Marine One. “It’s just a hoax.” Republicans in Congress, while privately worried that Mr. Mueller could still deliver an unpleasant surprise, have provided backup. Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, rounded up reporters on Friday to say that Democrats were launching a “fishing expedition” because they “don’t believe they are going to get what they’ve been asking for — and dying for — for two years.” In the meantime, guessing has dominated social gatherings in Washington, where debate over precedent often bounces from Whitewater to Watergate. On Monday night hundreds of people crowded into the Bier Baron Tavern near Dupont Circle to sip brews as Randall D. Eliason, a former federal prosecutor who now teaches law at nearby George Washington University, lectured on the Mueller investigation and presented a slide show with pub trivia. (Q: Who was the Russian charged as a co-defendant with Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman, for witness tampering? A: Konstantin V. Kilimnik.) Mr. Eliason also played down any expectations that the president would be indicted or that the entirety of Mr. Mueller’s report would be available to ordinary citizens. “If you don’t charge somebody, you don’t write a report about it and release it to the public,” Mr. Eliason said. “That’s just not the way the Justice Department is supposed to work.” A mile up Florida Avenue in the busy Adams Morgan neighborhood, Lee Farmer, a city planner, and Elizabeth Rairigh, a historic preservationist, were drinking wine at the Jack Rose Dining Saloon, both worn out by constant news of the report’s coming release. “I have this constant anticipation of something,” Ms. Rairigh said. “Every day I’m disappointed.” Ms. Farmer said she recently gave up cable news — an improvement, she joked, for her mental health. She added of the report, “I’ll find out before I die.” On that topic,  an NPR report last week suggested that some elderly anti-Trump Americans have taken that sentiment seriously and are trying to stay alive until Mr. Mueller’s work is done. Inside the White House, preparation has not been much more extensive. There is no war room preparing to deal with Mr. Mueller’s findings and no intention to set one up, as Mr. Clinton did when he faced impeachment and possible removal from office. There are no calls with surrogates to line up a messaging plan. The president’s advisers are simply flying blind, said one person directly involved in the planning, who was not authorized to discuss it. Their problem is familiar. White House officials do not know for certain that the report will be sent to the White House for review for executive privilege issues before it is submitted to the Justice Department, not to mention what it will say. For those caught up in the special counsel investigation, the wait is even more freighted. “My family’s life has been on pause for two years, and we have been waiting to press play ever since the rumors of the end of the investigation,” said Michael R. Caputo, a former Trump campaign aide who was questioned by Mr. Mueller’s team. The scrutiny has cost Mr. Caputo business and significant legal fees, he said, but he expressed optimism that the release of Mr. Mueller’s findings will allow him to move on. “So make with the report already,” he said. Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman, Annie Karni, Zach Montague and Kenneth P. Vogel. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionQuinta Jurecic   ", "id": "5c880bef49f0eacbf105cb29", "date": "2019-03-12T19:42:13+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Democrats Prepared to Subpoena Mueller and Take Fight Over Report to Court", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public. Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it. “We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.” Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress. While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides. Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious. But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president. Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be. “I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.” But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president. “The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”", "id": "5c72ed523a125f5075c0b4b4", "date": "2019-02-24T19:14:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "As the Russia Investigation Wraps Up, What Are Times Journalists Still Asking?", "full_text": " Times Insider Times Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and his team are said to be finishing their report, almost two years in the making, into possible Russian collusion and obstruction of justice by President Trump and those close to him. Four Times journalists who have been covering the developments closely, Amy Fiscus, Mark Mazzetti, Maggie Haberman and Katie Benner, dialed into a conference call with New York Times subscribers on Thursday morning. (Listen to the audio in full here.) They discussed their experience covering the story and answered questions from readers about the continuing investigation. Read a lightly edited excerpt from their conversation, led by Ms. Fiscus, here.  Amy Fiscus What questions are you each looking for this report to answer? What have been your white whales of covering this investigation?  Mark Mazzetti There are so many, since we’ve all been at this for so long. We have written so much about Russia, we’ve written about the different aspects of what’s been called the “collusion case,” we’ve written about Middle Eastern countries having a role in this investigation. I think it’s going to be, to a degree, unsatisfying if, as we expect, the report is less expansive than we might want. And that’s going to then set us up to go report out exactly what they knew about the evidence and why they decided not to bring charges. But I do think, stepping back, it’s important to say that if you look at the breadth of what Mueller has done so far, these indictments are incredibly detailed. And far more than is normal, in many cases. And so even if this final “report” is less expansive than we might think, if you go back and look at the, for instance, two big Russia indictments, they’re filled with information that is based on highly classified information that really does tell a narrative of what the Russians did in advance of the 2016 election, which is pretty breathtaking.  Katie Benner Mueller has not yet indicted any member of the Trump campaign for working with Russia. He’s largely indicted them for lying, but not for colluding with Russia. So the open question is, will the president be found to have worked with Russia or tried to obstruct justice?  Maggie Haberman I was going to say, the point that I’m really looking toward is what it says about obstruction of justice or attempted obstruction of justice. Does Mueller draw any conclusions in the report or make any recommendations, or does he just do a laying-out of facts and explain how they came to learn certain information and where it’s coming from? And then how rough the language is about the president. Even if the report is a couple dozen pages, a couple paragraphs about the president could or could not be pretty damning.  Amy Fiscus I wanted to ask you guys more of a personal question about the past couple of years and being on the front lines of this. Can you talk a little about what has been the most challenging part about covering all of this — Mueller, Trump, the White House, everything?  Mark Mazzetti Besides sleep? I’ve been in Washington a fairly long time covering national security issues and investigations and never encountered an investigation that’s more of a black box than this one is. It’s meant that we really have to be very judicious and careful about not getting out ahead of ourselves, not saying more than we know, not inferring things. This in the face of real journalistic competition, with our colleagues doing really good work, it has been, as I joked about, we’ve lost a lot of sleep over it. But I do think that the media has done a good job in terms of providing real information, also, for the investigators themselves. We’ve uncovered things that we know they didn’t even know about and they started to pursue. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.For more information about bimonthly Times conference calls for subscribers, and to listen to this call in full, visit timesevents.nytimes.com.", "id": "5c823d8c49f0eacbf105c055", "date": "2019-03-08T10:00:13+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Fed, Mindfulness: Your Weekend Briefing", "full_text": " Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. House Democrats have demanded to see the full Mueller report. But how much of it will lawmakers — and the public — actually see? That’s up to Attorney General William Barr, above, who has been reviewing the 400-page report to decide what to make publicly available, and what to black out. Mr. Barr has promised to give lawmakers as much of the report as possible by mid-April, subject to necessary deletions, but Democrats are growing increasingly impatient with the prospect of a heavily redacted document. And they’re not alone. Members of Robert Mueller’s team have told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately convey their findings. Our Washington correspondent breaks down what Mr. Barr could hold back from the report’s final release. Separately, a House committee chairman formally demanded six years of President Trump’s tax returns. The move could set up a momentous court fight. Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles. ____ 2. President Trump took several aggressive steps at the Federal Reserve last week. Some were more traditional than others. Above, Mr. Trump with the Fed chairman, Jerome Powell, in 2017. The president called on the Fed to cut interest rates and take additional steps to stimulate economic growth, criticizing the central bank’s rate increases in 2018. He also said he intended to appoint two vocal supporters, Stephen Moore and Herman Cain, to the board of governors. Mr. Moore is the founder of a group that backs conservative candidates, and Mr. Cain, a former pizza executive, sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2012. He’s also facing a fresh round of accusations of sexual misconduct. Our economics correspondent takes a look at what’s at risk if the Fed becomes as partisan as the rest of Washington. ____ 3. Joe Biden had a take-it-slow strategy for 2020. But when a crisis unfolded, he did not have an agile or fully staffed campaign to confront it. Mr. Biden, pictured above at a union conference last week, has faced accusations from multiple women who said his physical contact made them feel uncomfortable. It was a dayslong crisis that seemed entirely foreseeable, our political reporters write. They examine how Mr. Biden’s slow-to-the-gate approach may hamper his campaign. Allies of the former vice president have been told to expect an announcement after Easter. They are thinking. Weighing. And, in many cases, already campaigning. There are now 17 Democrats running for president. ____ 4. Israel’s election on Tuesday may appear to be a simple referendum on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. But our photographer and Jerusalem bureau chief describe a much more complex electoral landscape. Mr. Netanyahu, above, faces an unexpectedly stiff challenge from Benny Gantz, a former army chief and career soldier. At first glance it seems like a head-to-head contest, but under Israel’s chaotic and confusing parliamentary system, a panoply of small parties could tip the balance. “Say what you will about Bibi,” said a former employee of the prime minister, using Mr. Netanyahu’s nickname. “He wants the job more than anyone else. He wants it more than anything in the world.” ____ 5. “Thriving, prosperous, better, stronger, fairer — for everyone.” That was Lori Lightfoot, above, celebrating her election as the first black woman to lead Chicago and the city’s first openly gay mayor. Ms. Lightfoot, a former prosecutor, swept to victory with no political experience and what she called a “broad mandate for change.” Now comes the hard part. Chicago is complex and full of problems, which are now hers to solve: corruption, decades-long struggles with crime, segregation and policing, and urgent fiscal issues. Our reporters wrote about the challenges facing Ms. Lightfoot as she steps into her new leadership role. ____ 6. A mysterious infection is sweeping the globe, providing a new and searing example of a deadly public health threat: the rise of drug-resistant germs. The germ, a fungus called Candida auris, preys on people with weakened immune systems. Over the last five years, it has appeared in countries around the world, and most recently, New York, New Jersey and Illinois. The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has deemed it an “urgent threat.” Hospitals and governments are reluctant to disclose outbreaks of the germ, and a hushed panic is playing out around the world. Here are some basic facts about the fungal infection. ____ 7. There’s a new tool for the military that might make soldiers more precise on the battlefield, better able to juggle chaos and more resilient against PTSD. And it’s all in the mind. Soldiers in several countries, including the U.S., are being taught mindfulness practices, deep breathing and meditation techniques to improve focus during chaos. Above, a mindfulness class at Joint Base Lewis-McChord near Tacoma, Wash. In other military news, last week NATO envoys celebrated the 70th anniversary of the alliance. Our national security correspondent wrote about how the bonds from 1949 have begun to fray. ____ 8. Can Notre Dame become repeat champions? The Fighting Irish, above, will try to pick up a second consecutive women’s college basketball championship Sunday night when they face Baylor in a rematch of the 2012 final, which the Lady Bears won easily. Tipoff is at 6 p.m. Our basketball columnist wrote about how Notre Dame’s star guard, Arike Ogunbowale, is the kind of player women’s basketball needs. And on Monday night, Texas Tech and Virginia will face off in the men’s college basketball championship. The game is at 9 p.m. ____ 9. Namaste, not so much. Yoga studios around the United States offer teacher training for developing skills and techniques. But CorePower, the country’s largest yoga studio chain, has a distinctly profitable approach: It enlists teachers as salespeople and incentivizes them with bonuses. “You’re being taught to be calm and breathe, but at the same time, being taken advantage of,” said one CorePower trainee. Separately, our chief fashion critic asks a question: When did leggings become such a cultural and political lightning rod? ____ 10. Finally, it’s time to dig into our Best Weekend Reads. This week, The Times Magazine took a deep dive into the Murdoch family, the actor Sam Rockwell discusses shifting from portraying George W. Bush to the choreographer Bob Fosse, and we break down “Bury a Friend” by Billie Eilish, above, in our latest installment of Diary of a Song. For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, check out these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching and our music critics’ latest playlist. Have a zen week. ____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5ca9ca5549f0eacbf1f816bc", "date": "2019-04-07T09:59:20+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "At Democratic Campaign Events, Mueller Report Is Barely Mentioned", "full_text": " RYE, N.H. — For Democratic presidential candidates on Saturday, it wasn’t quite campaigning as usual after the delivery of a long-awaited report from the special counsel roiled Washington over the weekend. But it was pretty close. At events across early primary states, voters asked about health care and school shootings and immigration. Questioners were far less likely to address the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, which was delivered to Attorney General William P. Barr on Friday. Democratic voters said they cared deeply about the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election but weren’t quite sure what to make of the latest twist, exactly. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “We don’t know what’s in it,” said Alane Sullivan, 63, a retired businesswoman, after attending a town hall meeting with Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota in Rye, N.H. “One thing about people in New Hampshire: They are looking for answers, and they knew she wouldn’t know yet.” The lack of questions at campaign events about the report surprised some of the candidates, who had come prepared with lines about the latest development in the nearly two-year investigation. “I tried to kind of delicately bring it up because I think it is the major issue,” Ms. Klobuchar told reporters after her event. Ms. Klobuchar used a question about the separation of powers to mention her desire that the findings be made public — but that was the beginning and the end of public conversation about the topic. In South Carolina, the one question Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman, fielded about the Mueller report came from State Senator Marlon Kimpson, a local Democrat and a host of a town hall with Mr. O’Rourke in Charleston. He asked whether Congress should consider impeaching the president “assuming there’s facts and evidence” that President Trump knew about collusion or coordination with Russians who meddled in the 2016 election. But others in attendance figured the answers would come later. “I don’t think you can really process anything right now, because we don’t know what’s in it,” said Amy Drennan, 42, who works for a magazine publisher. Mr. O’Rourke said that the nation should “employ this mechanism of impeachment as an absolute last resort. Ultimately, that will be a decision for our representatives in Congress to make.” But he also said that the matter would “ultimately” be decided “at the ballot box in 2020.” The response received warm rounds of applause. With no detailed information available, Democrats have focused their attention on pressuring Mr. Barr to release the full report quickly. In the hours after Justice Department officials announced that the inquiry was over, Democratic presidential candidates called for the rapid and complete release of the findings. “My No. 1 focus right now is to get it public,” Ms. Klobuchar, who said she was worried that Mr. Barr would resist releasing details, told reporters after her town hall meeting. “Ninety percent of Americans want to see it public.” The conclusion of the investigation signifies a turning point in Donald Trump’s presidency, one that Democrats hope will bolster their efforts to depict his administration as corrupt, self-serving and divisive. But the fact that Mr. Mueller did not charge any Americans with conspiring with Russia to influence the election immediately buoyed Republicans seeking to lift the cloud that has surrounded the president for much of his time in office. Still, Democratic candidates and people who showed up at their campaign events on Saturday tended to focus on more immediate concerns. “Free every Dreamer of any fear of deportation by making them American citizens now,” Mr. O’Rourke proclaimed, responding to a question about the children of immigrants who are known as Dreamers that came from a Hispanic woman who said she herself was one of them. A middle-school-age boy said he wanted to know what could be done to make him feel safer in his classroom. Mr. O’Rourke called for ending the sale of weapons designed “for the express purpose of killing people.” If they are boilerplate liberal messages, the messenger was received as something special, particularly in Charleston, where Mr. O’Rourke, at the town hall-style meeting at a local high school and a Friday night event at an area brewpub, drew largely white and well-heeled crowds bursting with excitement. Here and elsewhere, Mr. O’Rourke delivered his message with a rat-a-tat urgency, his knees bouncing in rhythm with his words, with one hand grasping a microphone and the other one gesticulating like a bull rider out of the chute. Frankie Galizia, 27, a human resources manager from Hilton Head Island, S.C., said he was sold on Mr. O’Rourke because of his “relatable” style and because he hoped he would do a better job on issues he cares about, like L.G.B.T. rights. He wanted to know as much as possible about the Mueller report’s contents, he said. But for now, it “takes a complete back seat to the major issues this country faces.” The situation was much the same in Concord, N.H., where John Hickenlooper, the former Colorado governor, was meeting with voters. Mr. Hickenlooper, standing on a pair of barstools inside a packed brewery, told the tale of his rise from laid-off geologist to state leader, and then took questions on single-payer health care and the national debt. Henry Herndon, 26, an independent voter who works for a green energy advocacy group, said he had little reaction to the news that the report had been completed. He stood in the back of the brewery, chewing on a soft pretzel. “I’m numbed to it,” he said, “the media hype hype hype of this issue.” He didn’t think candidates should be taking on stance on it right now, he said. “There’s nothing to comment on. Yet.” Patricia Shearin, 54, a farmer and a Democrat, said she saw no reason candidates should comment on the report at this stage, and she urged them to refrain from calling for impeachment. “I think if you talk about impeachment you are going to anger those embedded supporters of Trump even more. And we want him out of the White House. I think the report should be made public and hopefully those that are in place to make decisions will be ethical.” Campaigning in South Carolina on Saturday, Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., said Democrats should focus on why Mr. Trump was elected in the first place rather than pin their hopes on impeachment as the way to end his presidency. “To me the most decisive way to put an end to Trumpism is for it be defeated massively at the ballot box,” he told reporters. Lisa Lerer reported from Rye, N.H., Richard Fausset from Charleston, S.C. and Julie Turkewitz from Concord, N.H. Trip Gabriel contributed from Columbia, S.C.   ", "id": "5c96845049f0eacbf105eb0b", "date": "2019-03-23T19:07:34+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Seeking Full Mueller Report, House Democrats Prepare to Vote on Subpoena", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The House Judiciary Committee has scheduled a vote on Wednesday to authorize a subpoena that Democrats can use to try to force the Justice Department to hand over an unredacted copy of the special counsel’s report and underlying evidence. The move on Monday by Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the committee’s chairman, made clear that Democrats are not satisfied with Attorney General William P. Barr’s assurances on Friday that he will produce a full, albeit redacted, copy of the nearly 400-page report to Congress by mid-April. “As I have made clear, Congress requires the full and complete special counsel report, without redactions, as well as access to the underlying evidence,” Mr. Nadler said in a statement. “The attorney general should reconsider so that we can work together to ensure the maximum transparency of this important report to both Congress and the American people.” The committee’s announcement came a day ahead of a deadline set by Mr. Nadler and five other House committee leaders for Mr. Barr to voluntarily hand over the material collected by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Barr appeared all but certain to miss it. The urgency among Democrats came, in part, because they mistrust Mr. Barr’s assessment of the report in a four-page letter he sent to Congress late last month. The letter said that Mr. Mueller had not found that the Trump campaign conspired with Russia to subvert the 2016 election, and that although Mr. Mueller did not offer a prosecutorial judgment on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, Mr. Barr had determined the president’s actions were not illegal. Democrats control the Judiciary Committee by a sizable margin and most likely will not need Republican support to approve the subpoena. If approved, it would be up to Mr. Nadler to determine when and if to issue it — effectively increasing pressure on Mr. Barr to meet Democrats’ demands. The committee’s top Republican, Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, appeared to oppose a subpoena on Monday, saying Democrats had grown “desperate” despite Mr. Barr providing “transparency above and beyond what is required.” “Judiciary Democrats have escalated from setting arbitrary deadlines to demanding unredacted material that Congress does not, in truth, require and that the law does not allow to be shared outside the Justice Department,” Mr. Collins said in a statement. Indeed, in his Friday letter to Mr. Nadler and other congressional leaders, Mr. Barr wrote that the Justice Department and special counsel’s team were scrubbing the report to redact secret grand jury testimony, classified material and information about other continuing federal investigations. He also agreed to testify publicly in early May about his handling of the case. In addition to authorizing a subpoena for the Mueller report, the Judiciary Committee will vote on Wednesday on subpoenas for five key witnesses in its investigation into possible obstruction of justice, abuse of power and corruption within the Trump administration. The individuals are Donald F. McGahn II, a former White House counsel who spoke extensively with Mr. Mueller’s investigators; Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s former chief strategist; Hope Hicks, a former White House communications director; Reince Priebus, the president’s first chief of staff; and Annie Donaldson, a deputy of Mr. McGahn who took detailed notes on the president’s behavior during key episodes in his administration. The five were among 81 individuals, companies and government entities from which the committee requested documents last month to kick-start its investigation. Mr. Nadler said he would not have to use the subpoenas if the witnesses changed course and complied voluntarily. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5ca24e7049f0eacbf1f7fdb2", "date": "2019-04-01T17:44:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Boeing, ISIS: Your Weekend Briefing", "full_text": " Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.  1. The long-awaited report from Robert Mueller, the special counsel, landed. And in many ways, it was just the beginning. Federal and state prosecutors were pursuing about a dozen other investigations that largely grew out of Mr. Mueller’s work. A constitutional battle was brewing, as Democrats swiftly demanded the release of the full report and any underlying documents. Attorney General William Barr may release the report’s principal conclusions to Congress as soon as this weekend. He is expected to take longer to review the broader report for any classified information. Above, various newspaper front pages announcing the report outside the Newseum in Washington. If you still have questions, we have guides to what we know, who was involved and what’s next to keep you covered. Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles. ____ 2. Boeing was “go, go, go” to beat a competitor, Airbus, with its 737 Max 8 jet. To clinch a deal with American Airlines, the company needed to update its workhorse 737 in six years. The competitive pressure to build the jet now threatens the reputation and profits of Boeing, after two deadly crashes of the 737 Max in less than five months. The pace of the work on the 737 Max was frenetic, according to current and former employees who spoke with The Times. Prosecutors are investigating whether Boeing rushed, missed crucial safety risks and underplayed the need for pilot training. Above, the Boeing plant in Renton, Wash. And this week, we learned that grief for some families of the Indonesia flight crash victims has been exacerbated by an effort to pressure them to renounce all rights to sue in exchange for compensation. ____ 3. The Islamic State’s last territory in Syria fell to U.S.-backed forces, ending a four-year battle and toppling a rogue state that was once the size of Britain. The loss of Baghuz, the last remnant of the biggest territory the Islamic State controlled, is a blow. At its zenith, the group controlled the lives of up to 12 million people. It became the world’s richest terrorist organization, raking in billions. Above, men who fled the last area of ISIS control waiting to be questioned about their links to the group by coalition forces. But the terrorist group remains a serious, violent threat. It commands thousands of followers from Afghanistan to the Philippines. ____ 4. In other international news: New Zealand banned assault rifles, six days after a mass shooting in Christchurch left 50 people dead. The country also banned the alleged gunman’s manifesto, making it a crime to possess or distribute it. Meanwhile, vigils are being held across the country, like the one above, in Christchurch. The European Union approved a Brexit extension, giving Prime Minister Theresa May and Parliament more time to get their act together. Many Britons were not pleased. Thousands marched against Brexit in London on Saturday afternoon. Read more about how we got here and where we go from here. In Mozambique and nearby countries, a cyclone affected more than 1.5 million people. Hundreds of people were killed, and the death toll is rising. Learn how you can help. And Italy defied allies and became the first of the Group of 7 nations to sign on to China’s “One Belt, One Road” expansion project. ____ 5. In Washington this week: President Trump overruled his own national security experts and announced a rollback of sanctions on North Korea. Meanwhile, North Korea escalated an attempt to create a rift between South Korea and the U.S. Above, Pyongyang, North Korea. Separately, days after the president declared that Israel should have sovereignty over the long disputed Golan Heights, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee was preparing for its annual conference amid rising tensions. And the Federal Reserve downgraded its outlook for the U.S. economy, and signaled little appetite for raising interest rates. Just three months ago, investors were in a panic over the idea that the Fed might push borrowing costs too high. ____ 6. This week, we reported that major flooding could impact 13 million people this spring. After Nebraska and other Midwestern states were already devasted by record-breaking winter floods, we could see a “potentially unprecedented” increase this spring, said Edward Clark, director of NOAA’s National Water Center. Above, flooding in Hamburg, Iowa. Is climate change the cause? It’s complicated. Each flood is its own phenomenon. But large amounts of rain can increase their likelihood, and heavier precipitation is an observed consequence of climate change. ____ 7. It’s the first weekend of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. Wrapping up the week, the Blue Devils pulled away on Friday with a victory after a slow start, and their fellow No. 1 seeds Virginia and North Carolina did the same. Above, North Carolina vs. Iona. Duke’s Zion Williamson said that before he led Duke to a win, his teammates were in his ear, telling him to be himself. “It just gives you energy,” he said, “and I just try to bring energy for my team.” ____ 8. Before the hacking of Sony Pictures and the Democratic National Committee, and before the first WikiLeak, there was Anthony Pellicano. Mr. Pellicano, above, a notorious private eye for the stars, spent 15 years in prison for illegal wiretapping and other crimes. He was released on Friday. In his career, he was known for using police tools like criminal background databases to help his clients, who paid him hundreds of thousands of dollars. He wiretapped actors like Sylvester Stallone, and did work on behalf of Chris Rock and Courtney Love. He once offered to have a producer murdered, and his body buried in the desert, according to testimony at his trial. ____ 9. Once on the margins, older African-American artists are being embraced by the art world. We spoke to artists in their 70s and 80s who are enjoying a renaissance, with popular exhibitions in museums and works that sometimes garner millions at auctions. At an age when many artists begin to slow down, they must balance the pressures of success. “The kind of elation I may have had back 30 years, I’m past that point,” said Howardena Pindell, pictured above. “It’s a more a sense of feeling protected and safe in terms of the vicissitudes of the art world.” ____ 10. Finally, we have our weekend reads. We wrote about snowplow parents who are getting in the way of their children’s success. We reviewed “Us,” where Jordan Peele, the director of “Get Out,” returned with a horror movie about a family terrorized by weird doubles. Above, the actress Lupita Nyong’o in a scene. And we profiled the PBS travel host Rick Steves, a gentle soul who wants to help you feel at home in the world. For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, try one of 11 new books our editors liked, TV recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist. Have an inspired week, and enjoy the first weekend of spring. ____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c974a0749f0eacbf105ebdd", "date": "2019-03-24T09:11:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Barr Says Congress May See Some Redacted Parts of Mueller Report", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Attorney General William P. Barr said on Wednesday that even after he released a partly blacked-out copy of the Mueller report, most likely next week, he would work to share with Congress some of the more sensitive information that he redacted. Mr. Barr also told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee that while he intends to black out derogatory information about “peripheral third parties,” he would not take out criticisms of public office holders, including President Trump. Democrats have attacked Mr. Barr for releasing only a four-page letter on March 24 with what he called the report’s “bottom-line findings”: that the evidence the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, gathered did not show any conspiracy between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russia, and that while the special counsel took no position on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice, Mr. Barr deemed him cleared. Lawmakers have demanded to see the unredacted report, a request Mr. Barr tried to address on Wednesday. “I intend to take up with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, the chairmen and ranking members of each, what other areas they feel they have a need to have access to the information and see if I can work to accommodate that,” Mr. Barr told the senators. His assurance did not mollify them. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, told him that any attempt to hide pieces of the report would “only fuel suspicions that the Justice Department, which represents the United States, is playing the role of President Trump’s defense team.” Even while Mr. Barr sought to reassure lawmakers that he would treat the report in a transparent and fair manner, he also made a startling statement sure to please the president — that investigative steps by the F.B.I. in 2016 to understand links between the Trump campaign and Russia amounted to “spying” on Mr. Trump’s campaign, a portrayal law enforcement officials have vehemently denied. [Read about the attorney general’s assertion that intelligence agencies spied on the Trump campaign.] The attorney general was testifying about the Justice Department budget for the second straight day. But as happened on Tuesday, when he appeared before a House panel, questions about the Trump-Russia investigation led by Mr. Mueller and his still-secret full report dominated the hearing. Mr. Barr glancingly addressed a mystery raised by his March 24 letter, which did not explain why Mr. Mueller had rendered no judgment on whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice — a silence that left open possibilities, including that the special counsel had wanted Mr. Barr to make the call, and that Mr. Mueller had intended for Congress to receive the evidence without the department weighing in. On Wednesday, Mr. Barr said that he had talked to Mr. Mueller about why he made no conclusion, and that the special counsel had not mentioned either of those possibilities to him. But the attorney general hinted that the answer might be known soon, saying that Mr. Mueller “has a fuller explanation of that in the report that I’ll be making available hopefully next week.” Mr. Barr again declined to say whether he had recently briefed the White House on details of the report, even though Justice Department officials had previously said it had not been shown to the White House. The hearing also addressed criticism of the F.B.I.’s early decisions in 2016 to open a counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election-meddling operations that included scrutinizing any links between Russia and associates of the Trump campaign. The investigation, which Mr. Mueller took over the next spring, included assigning an informant to approach members of the Trump campaign with links to Russia and later obtaining a court order to wiretap a former Trump adviser with links to Russia after he left the campaign. During that part of the discussion, Mr. Barr used a startling word to describe those steps — he said he thought “spying” on the Trump campaign had occurred. But he later seemed to tone down that formulation, saying his concern was whether “illegal surveillance” had taken place that was not “adequately predicated” — and conceding that he had “no specific evidence that I would cite right now.” Responding to Mr. Barr’s testimony, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter: “These comments directly contradict what DOJ previously told us. I’ve asked DOJ to brief us immediately. In the meantime, the AG still owes us the full Mueller report.” Meanwhile on Wednesday, the Senate Judiciary Committee held a confirmation hearing for Jeffrey A. Rosen, whom Mr. Trump has nominated to be Mr. Barr’s deputy. Mr. Rosen, who is currently the deputy secretary of transportation, would succeed Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller. Mr. Rosen largely sidestepped questions about the Russia investigation and Mueller report, saying he was not part of the department yet and did not know the facts. But Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, noted that some criminal matters that developed from Mr. Mueller’s work are continuing even though the Office of the Special Counsel is shutting down, and she pressed Mr. Rosen to commit to letting them proceed without political interference. “If I am confirmed,” Mr. Rosen replied, “I would expect in all prosecutorial matters to proceed on the facts and the law and not any improper political influences.” Ms. Klobuchar did not name which matters she had in mind, though several cases are still working their way through the court system, including the indictment of Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime informal adviser to Mr. Trump. Separately, under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Rosen defended his role in creating a Trump administration proposal on tailpipe pollution rules. Ms. Feinstein referred to a New York Times article that portrayed him as pushing to let cars emit more greenhouse gases. Mr. Rosen said the article had several errors, although he did not identify them. He also said the issue was how to carry out a law that required annual increases in fuel economy standards through 2020, and then set criteria for decisions about whether to require any further escalations in the years after that. The Trump administration, he said, was merely proposing a “timeout” after 2020. In fact, the current regulations, put forth by the Obama administration, require automakers to keep improving the fuel economy of passenger vehicles through 2025. The administration’s preferred proposal would therefore allow more greenhouse gas pollution than current rules. Mr. Rosen also portrayed himself as playing a “managerial” role in overseeing the drafting of the rule, such as by ensuring deadlines were met. But 11 people interviewed by The Times at the time of the negotiation said Mr. Rosen pushed forcefully for that outcome. Mr. Rosen also addressed criticism that he — like Mr. Barr and Brian A. Benczkowski, the head of the Justice Department’s Criminal Division — had no prosecutorial experience. He noted that the department had many experienced prosecutors, and said, “I would make it my job to utilize and leverage the expertise they bring to bear while combining that with my own experience and judgment.” Coral Davenport contributed reporting. Follow Charlie Savage and Katie Benner on Twitter: @charlie_savage and @ktbenner.   ", "id": "5cae78f649f0eacbf1f8280a", "date": "2019-04-10T23:13:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Mueller Report, Trump Says He’ll Let Justice Dept. Decide Whether to Release It", "full_text": " President Trump said on Wednesday that he would not intervene with the Justice Department’s decision-making process about whether to release the report by the special counsel investigating possible collusion with Russian officials in the 2016 campaign. “They’ll have to make their decision within the Justice Department,” Mr. Trump said in an Oval Office interview with the website The Daily Caller. “They will make the decision as to what they do.” He insisted that he had not spoken with Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, about the closing days of the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. “I could’ve taken a much different stance. I could’ve gotten involved in this. I could’ve terminated everything. I could’ve ended everything,” the president said. “I’ve chosen to stay out of it. But I had the right to, as you know, I had the right if I wanted to to end everything,” he added. “I could’ve just said, ‘That’s enough.’ Many people thought that’s what I should do.” Mr. Trump’s remarks came days after Mr. Whitaker told reporters that he believed the inquiry was nearing its end. “The investigation is, I think, close to being completed, and I hope that we can get the report from Director Mueller as soon as possible,” Mr. Whitaker said at the end of a news conference about an unrelated case. Since the special counsel was appointed in May 2017, it has been rare for senior Justice Department officials to comment publicly about the Russia inquiry. Under Justice Department rules, Mr. Mueller must explain his prosecutorial decisions in a “confidential report” to the attorney general once his investigation has ended. The attorney general must in turn send a report to Congress indicating why the work has been completed, though that can consist of only a brief summary. But it remains unclear whether the report will ever be publicly released. In his Senate confirmation hearings, Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, raised the possibility that it might not be. For weeks, Mr. Trump’s advisers have signaled that they believed that the special counsel’s investigation was almost over, but Mr. Mueller’s team has never given any indication about its timing. The special counsel is examining whether Trump campaign officials colluded with Moscow during the 2016 election. United States intelligence agencies have said that Russians tried to disrupt the election in support of Mr. Trump, but the president has repeatedly cast doubt on the role that Russia played. Last week, Mr. Mueller’s team indicted Roger J. Stone Jr., Mr. Trump’s on-and-off political adviser for more than 30 years, and a key architect of the president’s campaign platforms in its early days. The charges included one count of obstruction of justice, one count of witness tampering and five counts of making false statements to Congress. Mr. Stone quit the Trump campaign in 2015, well before the first primary race votes were cast. But he is the most recent figure connected to the campaign to be charged by the special counsel. Several campaign associates have been charged with lying to investigators. None have been charged with collaborating with Russians, a point that Mr. Trump’s team repeatedly stresses.", "id": "5c5316db3a125f5075c07530", "date": "2019-01-31T05:15:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? 17 Answers to What May Come Next", "full_text": " Maggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next. The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and his team have finished their long-anticipated report after investigating possible Russian interference in the 2016 election and obstruction of justice by President Trump and his associates.  [Read about the special counsel’s full report that was delivered to the attorney general on Friday. ] We asked readers what they wanted to know about the report and what may come next. We received more than 600 questions, and our journalists in Washington responded to a selection. It all depends on Attorney General William Barr. He is now reading the report to see whether Mr. Mueller alleges that President Trump broke the law and to determine how much of the investigators’ findings should be made public.  Mr. Barr told Congress earlier this year that he wants to release as much as he can. On Friday, he told Congress he could provide lawmakers with an update on Mr. Mueller’s findings as soon as this weekend. But he could be limited in what he can tell Congress, as the special counsel’s report may contain classified information and evidence obtained by a grand jury. — Michael S. Schmidt Mr. Barr has broad discretion, but it is not absolute. He may not lawfully be able to share information that is subject to grand jury secrecy rules absent a court’s permission, for example. He is also likely to acquiesce to any decision by President Trump to assert executive privilege to withhold certain materials, like communications with the president or agency deliberations.  During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Barr said he intended to be as transparent as possible, consistent with the Justice Department’s practices and policies. That could mean withholding information about open investigations or about people Mr. Mueller decided not to charge with a crime. There is also a wild card: Mr. Barr has long adhered to a sweeping view of executive power under which the president, as head of the executive branch, has a constitutional right to control the exercise of discretionary policymaking by a subordinate such as himself. — Charlie Savage Mr. Barr could decline to release any information that is classified or subject to grand jury rules. He could also keep any information from the public that is relevant to ongoing investigations. There could also be a looming battle over any information the White House claims is subject to “executive privilege,” which protects confidential discussions between the president and his advisers. — Mark Mazzetti The investigation by the special counsel’s office is over now that Mr. Mueller has provided his final report to the attorney general. So his team is not expected to seek additional charges.  Other federal prosecutors who received information related to Mr. Mueller’s investigation could move forward and seek indictments. For instance, federal prosecutors in New York continue to investigate possible crimes that Mr. Mueller referred to them related to campaign finance violations that ensnared Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer. Prosecutors are also investigating a top fund-raiser to Mr. Trump and a former lawyer in the Obama administration. Mr. Mueller had referred both cases to other prosecutors. — Adam Goldman Nothing in the Constitution or federal statutes says that sitting presidents are immune from prosecution, and no court has ruled that they have any such shield. But the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel — under the Nixon administration, and again under the Clinton administration — has opined that “structural principles” in the Constitution implicitly bar indicting a president.  Essentially, the idea is that the stigma of being indicted and the burden of a trial would unduly interfere with a president’s ability to oversee the executive branch and carry out his constitutional duties, so any indictment would have to wait until he is no longer president — either through impeachment and removal, or because his term is up. This interpretation of the Constitution is disputed, but it is nevertheless binding on Justice Department prosecutors, including Mr. Mueller. — Charlie Savage There have already been referrals that Mr. Mueller has made to federal prosecutors when he has found evidence of a possible crime that he considered outside his purview. The prosecution of Mr. Cohen began as a referral by Mr. Mueller to prosecutors in the Southern District of New York.  House Democrats are almost certain to seek the evidence that Mr. Mueller received during the course of his investigation. A number of House committee chairmen are planning to ask executive branch agencies to preserve documents that they provided to the special counsel. — Maggie Haberman We don’t know what’s in the report. I don’t want to speculate on what the worst-case scenario might be. But we do know that the special counsel had been investigating whether the president obstructed justice when he fired James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, in May 2017.  Mr. Mueller had also been examining Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia and whether anybody associated with his campaign conspired with the Russians during the 2016 election. Mr. Mueller’s investigation led to charges against more than 30 people, but none of them tied the president to a Russian conspiracy. — Adam Goldman We really don’t know the answer, but Mr. Trump’s lawyers consider it one of their greatest accomplishments that he never sat for an interview.  In early 2018, Mr. Mueller threatened to subpoena the president, setting off months of negotiations between the special counsel’s office and Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Ultimately, in November, Mr. Trump answered several questions in writing about what occurred during the campaign. But he refused to answer questions about his time in office — including whether he tried to obstruct justice. This meant that Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors were only left with the statements of other witnesses when they sought to determine why Mr. Trump may have interfered with the investigation.  Mr. Trump’s lawyers believed heading off an interview was such a great success because if he had testified, he would have been at risk of making an inaccurate statement and increasing his criminal exposure. — Michael S. Schmidt Good question, we don’t know. Disney World? We do know that some members of his team intend to return to their jobs at law firms in New York and Washington, and others to return to the Justice Department. It has been reported that Andrew Weissmann, one of the senior members of the team, intends to teach at New York University.  As for Mr. Mueller, maybe he’ll also go back to working at a law firm or retire. It’s certainly possible that one or more of the House committees investigating various aspects of the case and Mr. Trump will want to call him to testify, though Mr. Barr, the attorney general, will have a say in whether he can do so. — Mark Mazzetti In his letter to Congress on Friday, Mr. Barr said he “may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsel’s principal conclusions as soon as this weekend.” But we don’t know what is in the underlying report.  Here are some categories of elements that may raise legal or policy concerns about disclosure to Congress or the public: 1. Any highly classified information, such as something that could help the Russian government identify and take out an intelligence source; 2. Anything that remains relevant to an ongoing investigation, such as those that Mr. Mueller spun off to regular prosecutors or the ongoing counterintelligence investigation into Russia; 3. Testimony and files that were presented to the grand jury and so are subject to a federal rule of criminal procedure that generally forbids disclosure of such material absent a court order; 4. Negative information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime, which the Justice Department normally does not make public (this is why Mr. Comey’s news conference about Hillary Clinton’s email server was so broadly condemned by other law enforcement officials); 5. Internal executive branch information, like confidential communications with the president or agency deliberations, that could be subject to a claim of executive privilege. — Charlie Savage In short, yes. Congress can subpoena just about anything it wants, but that does not mean lawmakers will do so or that they will be successful in getting what they want.  Democrats have made abundantly clear that they will be satisfied with nothing less than Mr. Mueller’s full report and access to his underlying evidence. They will start by asking for the Justice Department to share all that information voluntarily. If the department resists, a committee could issue a subpoena to try to compel it to produce the relevant documents.  What comes next is likely complicated. There are several reasons the Justice Department might be unwilling to just hand over classified or grand jury information, even under subpoena. In that case, Congress could sue to try to enforce its demand. Then it would be up to the courts to decide who gets to see what. — Nicholas Fandos The White House counsel’s office anticipates being able to review the report to raise possible objections related to executive privilege. We have no sense right now how long that will take, but any effort by the White House to bar the release of elements of the report is sure to set off a political and legal battle. Mr. Barr said on Friday that he anticipates being able to brief Congress within a few days about the special counsel’s “principal conclusions.” But it is not clear how much of the report’s details and underlying documentation he will ultimately provide to Congress and, by extension, the public.  Mr. Barr appeared to be lowering expectations during his Senate confirmation hearings when he said he wanted to be as transparent as possible but might provide simply a summary to Congress. — Maggie Haberman We have no information that the full report will be made available to state or federal prosecutors. But during the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller has referred a number of cases to other federal prosecutors in New York and Washington. — Adam Goldman We still don’t know what’s in the report. In terms of electoral politics, you’re right — it might not fundamentally change the partisan divide over Mr. Trump. His supporters have shown a willingness to stay with him in the face of allegations and behavior that might have doomed a more traditional politician. But you could argue that this report has an importance that goes well beyond partisan politics, reflecting an investigation that yielded substantial results — not least in establishing the degree of Russian interference in the 2016 election. Don’t forget that half a dozen Trump aides have been indicted or convicted.  Regardless of Mr. Mueller’s conclusions, Democrats in the House are pressing ahead on issues such as whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice after becoming president. The Democrats say Mr. Barr needs to make as much of Mr. Mueller’s findings public as soon as possible because the American people deserve an accounting of what went on. — Michael S. Schmidt If anyone is to be indicted down the road, it won’t be by Mr. Mueller. It’s now clear that his team won’t try to charge anyone else, because his work is done.  To be sure, there are now numerous, ongoing investigations by other federal prosecutors that could mean legal peril for Mr. Trump’s advisers or family members. Remember that in the investigation being run by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York, Mr. Cohen implicated the president in a scheme to pay off two women before the 2016 election. But given Justice Department rules, there isn’t any expectation that Mr. Trump would be in legal jeopardy as long as he’s in the White House. — Mark Mazzetti As of Sept. 30, 2018, the special counsel’s investigation had cost more than $25 million.  More than $12 million of that was direct spending by Mr. Mueller’s team. That amount will increase once the special counsel’s office submits its final list of expenses. Those costs included the expenses of Justice Department personnel and other resources that supported the special counsel office.  The special counsel says the Justice Department would have incurred those expenses for the “investigations irrespective of the existence of the (special counsel office).” The special counsel also seized more millions in property and fines. — Adam Goldman We wish we knew. Keep in mind there are likely to be two reports: one prepared by Mr. Mueller for the Justice Department and another prepared by Mr. Barr to be shared with Congress and the public.  Both reports could be as short as a few pages, or considerably longer. And Mr. Barr could well choose to give the public a more concise report than Mr. Mueller gave him. That said, a senior Justice Department official told reporters on Friday that the report delivered by Mr. Mueller had been “comprehensive.” — Nicholas Fandos Correction: March 26, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Robert S. Mueller III’s work status before he became the special counsel. Mr. Mueller was a partner at a law firm; he was not retired. Correction: March 22, 2019An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a senior member of Mr. Mueller’s team. He is Andrew Weissmann, not Weissman. A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit. Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.", "id": "5c9552ec49f0eacbf105e954", "date": "2019-03-22T21:24:33+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Russian Vodka. A ‘No Collusion Day’ Rally. Trump Fans Celebrate the Mueller Report.", "full_text": " The celebrations began almost immediately. Over the weekend in midtown Manhattan, Lisa Joseph helped organize a “No Collusion Day” rally. In Houston, Anson Klaber took a bottle of Russian vodka and poultry to a dinner party. He wanted his friends to eat crow, but cooked chicken would have to do. “I get one day where I can gloat about it, and you all get upset,” Mr. Klaber, 43, an apartment building manager, said of his largely liberal circle of friends, who were not amused. Instead, they were crestfallen that a special counsel investigation had, according to the Justice Department, found no coordination between President Trump’s campaign and Russia’s election meddling. For almost two years, Mr. Trump’s fiercest supporters echoed his attacks against the inquiry, led by former F.B.I. director Robert S. Mueller III, as a “witch hunt” that should be shut down. “No collusion” became their rallying cry, and they sided with congressional Republicans whose efforts to discredit Mr. Mueller had divided Republican lawmakers. Some conservatives said they decided months or years ago that there could have been no collaboration between the Trump campaign and Moscow. Over the weekend, they rejoiced. “It’s just sad it had to happen,” said Ms. Joseph, 47, a stay-at-home mother who helped organize the Manhattan rally and also helped plan a 2017 “March Against Sharia” in Syracuse. “If the Democrats don’t stop investigating him, they are going to shoot themselves in the foot. If they keep going, they’re going to be defeated.” Since Mr. Mueller was appointed in 2017, conservative Americans have run advertisements against the special counsel. Others signed petitions demanding his firing. But by the time the initial rush of relief and vindication faded after Attorney General William P. Barr announced a summary of the special counsel’s findings on Sunday, Mr. Mueller was an afterthought to many of Mr. Trump’s fans. Instead, they shifted their anger to Democratic politicians, career government officials and the news media they said they blame for trying to drag down the president. “The problem was not the special counsel,” the Rev. Robert Jeffress, the senior pastor of First Baptist Dallas and one of Mr. Trump’s most fervent evangelical supporters, said on Tuesday. “The problem was the provision that allowed the special counsel unlimited time and money and power to make an investigation that did not have a solid foundation behind it.” He said he expected Mr. Trump to “talk quite a bit about this.” “I think, frankly, the Democrats have handed him a weapon for 2020,” Mr. Jeffress said. “I think the unfairness of this investigation, the attempt to overturn the 2016 election is going to energize the president’s base like no one can possibly imagine.” Indeed, many conservatives said Mr. Mueller’s report only helped to confirm their disdain for the news media (“fake news,” they said) and for the multiple, ongoing investigations of the president and his businesses, which they have brushed aside as more hoaxes. Still, it was not like Mr. Trump’s faithful suddenly approved of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, which has led to a half-dozen indictments or convictions of former Trump aides. In interviews from suburban Atlanta to Houston to Orange County, Calif., conservative supporters said they were still furious — and felt more besieged than ever. Last year, Bruce Desautels introduced a resolution during the Nebraska state Republican convention to condemn the Mueller investigation as an “unjust attack” on the Trump administration, and he complained that Mr. Mueller had “chosen to obstinately pursue a face-saving charge of ‘obstructing justice’ where no criminality exists.” On Tuesday, he was still spitting mad. “If you’re asking whether I exonerate Mueller, whether I think he’s a fine guy, I don’t,” Mr. Desautels, 58, said. “This was a witch hunt, and anyone could see it from the beginning.” To Mr. Desautels, Mr. Mueller seemed to be just another creature of Washington, an establishment-backing Republican unnerved by Mr. Trump’s approach to the capital. “A decent guy, a real prosecutor who is playing fair, would have looked at this thing and said, ‘I’m not touching this thing, this is obviously politically motivated,’” he said. “This is a black mark on the American judicial system.” Some Trump supporters drew parallels to the 2016 election, when they said their support for Mr. Trump was discounted and derided by Democrats and mainstream media predictions up until the moment he won. In June 2017, the Great America Alliance, an advocacy group that supports Mr. Trump’s agenda, posted a campaign-style web video attacking the Mueller inquiry as a “rigged game” out to get the president. The group’s chairman, Eric Beach, said it is planning new videos, which will draw from the Justice Department’s publicly available summary of the Mueller report. Dan Dieterle, who runs a barbecue restaurant in suburban Atlanta, faulted Mr. Mueller for pursuing an expensive and time-consuming inquiry that, at least according to the attorney general, showed no criminal conduct by Mr. Trump. “What scares the bejesus out of me is that this is the United States of America, and for a group of people to do what they’ve done to this man, who was duly elected, and people in his wake, it scares the heck out of me,” said Mr. Dieterle, who used to have a cutout of Mr. Trump at another restaurant he ran in north Georgia. “There was absolutely no reason to go after the man. They went after him because they didn’t like him.” Mr. Dieterle said “the whole thing was a farce from the beginning” and that he had not had much faith in Mr. Mueller. “Mueller didn’t exonerate him,” he said. “Trump exonerated himself.”", "id": "5c9ac20049f0eacbf105f35d", "date": "2019-03-27T00:19:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Columbine, Beyoncé: Your Wednesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening.  We’re just learning that North Korea tested a new tactical weapon. We’ll have more at nytimes.com.  And now for the rest of the day’s news. 1. The Trump administration is expanding migrant detention centers along the border. Border officials will spend nearly $40 million to build two new tent cities in Texas to handle some of the surge of migrants — more than 4,000 in a single recent day, according to the new acting secretary of Homeland Security, Kevin McAleenan. Mr. McAleenan spoke in McAllen, Tex., where he met with border agents. On Tuesday, Attorney General William Barr issued an order that could keep thousands of asylum seekers in jail indefinitely. Above, a detention center in Los Fresnos, Tex. What is asylum and who can seek it? We broke down the new restrictions. _____ 2. This time tomorrow, we expect to be unpacking the redacted version of the special counsel’s report. The release appears to be coming in the morning, possibly after Attorney General William Barr holds a news conference at 9:30 a.m. Some of the findings won’t be news to President Trump: Justice Department and White House officials discussed Robert Mueller’s findings several times in recent days. We’ll have real-time excerpts and analysis. Here’s our advance guide. Congressional Democrats, reporters and many Americans will make a beeline to the section that addresses why the special counsel decided not to draw a conclusion about whether President Trump obstructed justice — a gap Mr. Barr filled with his own determination that the president had not. As Mr. Trump waits for the report, he’s been passing the time by commenting on the news. _____ 3. A Florida teenager “infatuated” with the Columbine school shooting was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot, ending a massive police hunt during which hundreds of Denver-area schools were closed. The authorities said Sol Pais, 18, had traveled to Denver for a “pilgrimage” to Columbine, just days before the 20th anniversary of the mass shooting at the high school. Officials said she had bought a shotgun and ammunition after arriving in Denver and expressed concerns about her mental stability. Here’s what we know about her. Gun violence is a major public health issue, but political pressures have limited research into it. That is starting to change: Gun research is on the rise. _____ 4. An international suicide is also in the news. Former President Alan García of Peru shot himself in the head as the police tried to arrest him in connection with one of the biggest corruption scandals in Latin American history. Above, Mr. García during his inauguration in 2006. Separately, Sudan’s former president Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who ruled for three decades until his ouster last week, has been moved to a prison in the capital, Khartoum. He is wanted by the International Criminal Court for charges of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. _____ 5. Days after a fire devastated Notre-Dame cathedral, France is shifting its focus to reconstruction. Individuals, companies and institutions have so far donated or pledged some 850 million euros, almost $1 billion, to the cause. But the spectacle of French billionaires trying to outdo one another with gifts that may win them tax breaks quickly intensified resentments over inequality that have flared during the Yellow Vest movement. We built an interactive graphic that shows the inside of Notre-Dame’s attic, where the fire started, to illustrate why the building was so susceptible to fire. _____ 6. We have profound news from our science desk. Researchers at Yale University removed the brains from 32 dead pigs and, hours later, restored cellular activity to them. A bioethicist called the brains “partly alive.” The study overturns long-held assumptions about brain death, and raises questions about the line between life and mortality. (We did say it was profound.) Separately, we also reconstructed the case of a Chicago woman who died from Candida auris — a rare portrait of a drug-resistant infection that’s been appearing around the world, but that few institutions have publicly discussed. _____ 7. They glued themselves to the top of a London commuter train, above, staged a group yoga class on a major bridge and occupied major landmarks. Hundreds were arrested. It was all part of a global civil disobedience campaign demanding immediate government action on climate change. The London protesters have been going strong for three days. They have no plans to stop. And if you missed it in today’s Morning Briefing, our reporter and photographer explored how glacial melting in North America is affecting the natural world. _____ 8. Uber versus Lyft: We settled the argument so you don’t have to. Lyft’s I.P.O. and Uber’s plans for one prompted our tech columnist to focus on the consumer’s bottom line in ride-hailing. Here’s his comprehensive comparison. His conclusion: For now, Uber has the edge. We also sat down with Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive of YouTube. She may be the most measured person in tech, running the most chaotic place on the internet. _____ 9. Can a Greek tragedy help heal a scarred city? Our reporter spent a week on the ground with the provocative stage director Milo Rau, who brought together European and Iraqi actors for a take on “The Oresteia” set in Mosul. And she saw how reality challenged Mr. Rau’s assumptions of how classics can be reconceived. Above, actors staged the death of Agamemnon outside a bombed-out arts building. “We do not need to act a tragedy,” said one young actor. “This play is just talking about the reality of Mosul.” _____ 10. Finally, we report from the BeyHive. Netflix is now streaming “Homecoming,” the documentary about Beyoncé’s rapturously received 2018 Coachella set, known to pop history as Beychella. And almost within the same breath, Beyoncé one-upped herself with a surprise live-album version of the same career-defining concert. The film, our critic says, reinforces the idea that Beyoncé the performer is also Beyoncé the creator: “It’s Beyoncé exactly as she wants us to see her and has always wanted us to see her: as a perfectionist, and as the hardest-working person in show business.” Have a buzzworthy night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cb7a28349f0eacbf1f851e4", "date": "2019-04-17T22:01:13+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Gregory Craig, Ex-Obama Aide, Is Indicted on Charges of Lying to Justice Dept.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — In an indictment that seized the attention of the capital’s K Street lobbying corridor, Gregory B. Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, was charged on Thursday with lying to the Justice Department and concealing information about work he did in 2012 for the government of Ukraine. The indictment of Mr. Craig, 74, stemmed from an investigation initiated by the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The charges represented a continuation — and an expansion — of a new focus on a long-neglected law governing foreign influence operations in the United States, which the Justice Department has begun prioritizing in part because of scrutiny related to Mr. Mueller’s investigation. Mr. Craig, in a video posted on YouTube on Thursday night, called the charges against him “unprecedented and unjustified,” and expressed confidence “that both the judge and the jury will agree with me.” [Read the indictment.] The Foreign Agents Registration Act, or FARA, had been the basis for charges brought against several people who had been investigated by the special counsel. The 1938 law requires Americans to register with the Justice Department when they lobby or do public relations in the United States for foreign politicians, parties or governments. Before Mr. Craig’s indictment, the recent charges brought in cases initiated by Mr. Mueller had accused people of failing to disclose their lobbying work. The charges against Mr. Craig, on the other hand, stem from public relations, rather than lobbying. While Mr. Craig was not charged with failing to register under the law, the indictment accuses him of lying to, and withholding information from, the Justice Department officials who oversee FARA in order to avoid registration. Before the indictment, Mr. Craig’s lawyers asserted that the case against their client was flimsy, pointing out that Mr. Mueller’s team had referred it to federal prosecutors in Manhattan last year for potential prosecution related to foreign lobbying laws, but that they did not bring charges. Instead, the case was moved in January to Washington. “Mr. Craig had no interest in misleading the FARA Unit because he had not done anything that required his registration,” Mr. Craig’s lawyers, William Taylor and William Murphy, said in a statement on Thursday, referring to the part of the Justice Department that oversees the law. “That is what this trial will be all about.” Federal prosecutors are pursuing a number of criminal inquiries that grew out of the investigation of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. The charges will prompt even more diligent review of possible compliance obligations by consultants who represent foreign clients, said Thomas J. Spulak, a partner at the King & Spalding law firm who advises on lobbying compliance. “It’s pretty significant,” he said. “It’s not just trying to influence the government; it’s trying to influence the American public.” He added, of Mr. Craig’s case, “If they can establish the facts, then I think it’s a pretty serious violation.” Mr. Craig’s indictment also attracted notice because he is the first person who made his name in Democratic Party politics to be charged in a case linked to the special counsel’s investigation. An Ivy League-educated lawyer, Mr. Craig held prominent positions in the administrations of President Bill Clinton and President Barack Obama. The charges “undermine the narrative of President Trump and congressional Republicans that the Mueller probe was a Democratic witch hunt meant to bring down Trump and the G.O.P.,” said Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law. The indictment said Mr. Craig “did not want to register as an agent for the government of Ukraine” partly because he believed doing so would make it less likely that he and others at his firm at the time, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, would be appointed to federal government posts. Mr. Obama had put rules in place restricting the work that former lobbyists could do in his administration. The indictment said Mr. Craig also wanted to hide the identity of the Ukrainian oligarch who paid $4 million to fund the overwhelming majority of the fees received by Skadden Arps for the Ukraine work. In his YouTube video, Mr. Craig identified the oligarch as Viktor Pinchuk, a steel magnate who has portrayed himself as pro-Western, and who has donated millions to the Clinton Foundation, as well as $150,000 to Mr. Trump’s since-shuttered charitable foundation. Mr. Pinchuk’s representatives have said that “he had no connection to the project either professionally or personally” and “was not the source of any funds used to pay fees of Skadden in producing the report.” The work was done on behalf of the government of Viktor F. Yanukovych, then the president of Ukraine, and consisted primarily of producing a report on the prosecution and jailing by Mr. Yanukovych’s government of one of his rivals, the former Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko. The Skadden Arps team also agreed to train Ukrainian prosecutors handling matters related to the case. The work was steered to Mr. Craig and his firm by Paul Manafort, who at the time was a political consultant earning tens of millions of dollars for his representation of Mr. Yanukovych. Mr. Manafort intended to use the report to quell Western criticism of Mr. Yanukovych. Six Trump advisers or officials have been charged by the special counsel. Mr. Manafort, who went on to become Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman in 2016, was sentenced last month to seven and a half years in prison on charges brought by Mr. Mueller’s team related to obstruction of justice and violations of FARA, as well as banking and tax laws stemming from his work in Ukraine. Mr. Craig is scheduled to be arraigned on Friday. In his video statement, Mr. Craig said his team at Skadden Arps “researched the requirements for registration under FARA and agreed that the law firm did not need to register.” He also said that the report the team produced “was critical of important aspects of the trial, which we found to be flawed.” After the report was released, and Mr. Craig was quoted discussing it in an article in The New York Times, the Justice Department reached out to Skadden Arps to ask why the firm and its lawyers had not registered as foreign agents for the Ukrainian government. The department initially concluded in 2013 that Skadden Arps was required to register. But it reversed itself the next year after Mr. Craig made the case that the law did not apply to his work on behalf of Ukraine. After the initial determination, Mr. Craig told the Justice Department that he and Skadden Arps did not proactively reach out to news outlets to disseminate and promote the report. Rather, he claimed he distributed the report only “in response to requests from the media,” according to a letter he sent to the department at the time. In the indictment, prosecutors presented evidence that Mr. Craig did reach out to The Times and was involved in the media rollout strategy for the report. A spokeswoman for The Times said, “To date, we have not received a subpoena in the investigation and have not provided information to the government.” Mr. Craig left Skadden Arps last year as scrutiny of his work with Mr. Manafort escalated and after a former associate of the firm pleaded guilty to lying to investigators about his work on the effort. Skadden Arps reached a settlement in January with the Justice Department that allowed the firm to avoid prosecution in the matter in exchange for an agreement to pay $4.6 million, to retroactively register its Ukraine work under FARA, to beef up its compliance processes and to cooperate with government investigations of the work on behalf of Ukraine. Taken together, the indictment of Mr. Craig and the settlement with Skadden Arps suggest that the Justice Department is trying to “make an example of this prominent lawyer and law firm so that parties receiving D.O.J. inquiries in the future will take them more seriously,” said Matthew Sanderson, who advises clients on compliance with FARA and other lobbying laws for the firm Caplin & Drysdale. “In the past, the department would send letters of inquiry to organizations that would receive only a cursory response or be disregarded altogether,” he said. “That, apparently, will no longer be tolerated.”   ", "id": "5caf8b8049f0eacbf1f83000", "date": "2019-04-11T18:44:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Exceeds 300 Pages, Raising Questions About Four-Page Summary", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The still-secret report on Russian interference in the 2016 election submitted last week by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was more than 300 pages long, the Justice Department acknowledged on Thursday. Mr. Barr wrote to Congress on Sunday offering what he called the “principal conclusions” of the report — including that Mr. Mueller had not found that the Trump campaign had taken part in a conspiracy to undermine the election. But he had notably declined to publicly disclose its length. The total of 300-plus pages suggests that Mr. Mueller went well beyond the kind of bare-bones summary required by the Justice Department regulation governing his appointment and detailed his conclusions at length. And it raises questions about what Mr. Barr might have left out of the four dense pages he sent to Congress. Answering those questions is likely to prove difficult for lawmakers and the public. Mr. Barr has indicated to two congressional chairmen that it will most likely take weeks to redact the report for classified and grand jury information the department deems unfit for public consumption. But Justice Department officials, including some from the attorney general’s office, could examine the report before sending any documents to Congress for possible material the president could claim as privileged, according to a department official. The practice is not unusual, but it would most likely create another tranche of material from Mr. Mueller’s investigation to be withheld from Congress and kick off a fight between lawmakers and the administration that would further delay a resolution. No plans have been made for a review, the official said, and it was not clear whether Mr. Barr would be personally involved. If the Justice Department were to deem certain aspects of Mr. Mueller’s report to be subject to executive privilege, Democrats in Congress would almost certainly contest the assertion and force Mr. Trump to actually claim the privilege — and risk a court challenge — or not. Law enforcement officials had no plans to show White House officials the report before it was sent to Congress, the Justice Department official said. Democrats, who like all other lawmakers have not seen the report, have already all but accused Mr. Barr of covering up damaging information it contains. They have specifically focused on an apparent difference between the views of Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice. Democrats have demanded that the attorney general make the full report and evidence public. “For Mr. Barr to quickly issue a four-page report in his attempt to try to exonerate Mr. Trump, and now to delay the release of an over 300-page report written by Mueller so the American people and we senators and congressmen can see what was written, has too much of the odor of political expediency to help the man who appointed him, President Trump,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a speech on the chamber floor. The letter, by Attorney General William P. Barr, details the main findings of the special counsel’s two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. Republicans have adopted a more trusting stance of Mr. Barr, indicating that they believe he will make appropriate judgments about what should and should not be shared. The new ballpark page length came about a week after a senior Justice Department official told reporters that the report was “comprehensive.” Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, added the description “very substantial” after talking to Mr. Barr on Wednesday, although neither he nor any other member of Congress has seen the report and he declined to give a page count. Andrew Napolitano, a legal analyst for Fox News and a favorite of Mr. Trump, caused a stir on Wednesday when he said multiple times on the air that the report was 700 pages. Kerri Kupec, a Justice Department spokeswoman, confirmed the length of the document after The New York Times reported it, citing American officials who spoke anonymously because they were not authorized to discuss details of the report. Mr. Barr had told Mr. Nadler on their Wednesday call that the report was more than 300 pages long, Ms. Kupec said. Other blockbuster government reports in recent decades have been lengthy. At 445 pages, the independent counsel Ken Starr’s report on President Bill Clinton had to be trucked to Capitol Hill in September 1998. The 9/11 commission report ran 567 pages with notes on the circumstances and fallout of the Sept. 11 attacks. Even the Justice Department inspector general seems to have outwritten Mr. Mueller of late. Michael E. Horowitz released a scathing report last summer on the F.B.I.’s handling of an investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state that preoccupied Congress for weeks. Mr. Horowitz’s report was 568 pages. Mr. Mueller probably collected and generated hundreds of thousands if not millions of pages of paper during his investigation. Congress has made clear it would eventually like access to all of them, but the Justice Department could have good reason to block the release of some, leaving it once again to the courts to determine who sees what. Members of Mr. Barr’s and Mr. Mueller’s teams are currently reviewing the full report to redact information that they do not believe should be made public for intelligence or other reasons. Mr. Barr has told lawmakers in recent days that it will take weeks to make more of Mr. Mueller’s findings public. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.  OpinionNeal K. Katyal", "id": "5c9cd92c49f0eacbf105f89f", "date": "2019-03-28T14:23:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Expected to Go to Justice Department Within Weeks", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The new attorney general, William P. Barr, is preparing for the special counsel to deliver a report in coming weeks on the results of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, two officials briefed on the Justice Department’s preparations said. President Trump’s legal team and other allies of the administration have incorrectly predicted an imminent end to the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, for well over a year. It remains unclear whether Mr. Mueller might take further public action, such as additional indictments, before submitting his report to Mr. Barr. Once the report is submitted, it is not certain how much of it will become public or when. The submission of a report by Mr. Mueller would effectively mean his office is closing down. The special counsel would no longer be conducting investigations in conjunction with the F.B.I., and Mr. Mueller would not be opening any new lines of inquiry. But active cases that have not yet been brought to a conclusion would likely continue. New prosecutors from outside the special counsel’s operation could pick up cases that remain in progress. And some cases that spun off from Mr. Mueller’s investigation — including those being conducted by the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan involving Michael D. Cohen and Mr. Trump’s business — would continue unaffected. No matter what the special counsel concludes, the findings will be sure to send shock waves through Washington, with Mr. Trump’s presidency on the line and both Democrats and Republicans poised to spin the contents to their advantage. The White House is bracing for revelations that could politically damage Mr. Trump, or open him up to the possibility of impeachment by the Democrat-controlled House, even if he is not accused of criminal conduct. The transmittal of the report to Mr. Barr would also place the attorney general in the spotlight as he decides how much of the findings to share with lawmakers and the public. Mr. Mueller was appointed as the special counsel on May 17, 2017, in the wake of Mr. Trump’s decision eight days earlier to dismiss James B. Comey as F.B.I. director. Mr. Mueller was given a mandate to investigate whether Russia interfered in the 2016 election and “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.” He was also given the option of referring any other matters that he might come across in doing so to other federal prosecutors, who can further investigate and open new cases. Once Mr. Mueller’s report is in his hands, Mr. Barr will have to review it for any classified information that would have to be omitted from any summary that Mr. Barr might decide to release, a process that could take days or even weeks. Former Justice Department and F.B.I. officials said that Mr. Barr could also draw up an unclassified summary to be widely distributed to lawmakers — making leaks all but certain — as well as a classified version to be shared with a smaller group of Congressional leaders. A spokeswoman for the Justice Department and a spokesman for the special counsel’s office declined to comment. The country has been riveted by Mr. Mueller’s nearly two-year investigation into Russian election interference and whether Trump campaign officials worked with the Russians trying to sway the election in favor of Mr. Trump. The special counsel’s office has indicted dozens of people, including a half dozen former Trump campaign advisers who have been indicted or pleaded guilty to past financial crimes, lying to the F.B.I., obstructing the special counsel investigation and failure to properly disclose their work for foreign governments. The office has also indicted dozens of Russian intelligence officers for stealing and then weaponizing information from Hillary Clinton’s inner circle. And it has indicted Russian propagandists for the misinformation campaigns they spread on social media that sought to dampen support for Mrs. Clinton in her campaign against Mr. Trump. But Mr. Mueller has not filed explicit public allegations that Mr. Trump, his campaign officials or other members of his inner circle worked with Russian operatives to influence the outcome of the 2016 election. And the special counsel’s office has not divulged any information regarding one of the main strands of its investigation — whether Mr. Trump or his aides could be criminally charged with obstruction of justice. At his confirmation hearings, Mr. Barr resisted pressure from Democrats to make firm commitments about how transparent he will be in sharing Mr. Mueller’s report with Congress and the public. The regulations governing the special counsel say only that Mr. Mueller must submit to the attorney general a confidential report detailing his decisions to bring charges in the inquiry. It is then up to Mr. Barr to decide how much of that report should be shared with Congress. During his confirmation hearings, Mr. Barr said that he believed it best to be transparent about the report, consistent with the special counsel’s rules and the law. Before he was nominated, Mr. Barr wrote a 19-page memo last summer arguing that Mr. Mueller was on shaky legal ground if he tried to treat Mr. Trump’s decision to fire Mr. Comey, the former director of the F.B.I., as an act of obstruction — a memo that has Democrats in Congress worried that the attorney general comes to the investigation with biases that could move him to share very little of the report with lawmakers. Mr. Barr has also noted that the department does not generally publish derogatory information about individuals who have not been charged with crimes. Given that there is a longstanding Justice Department legal opinion that a sitting president cannot be charged with a crime, Mr. Barr may have to weigh whether it is right to share any information from the report that may cast Mr. Trump in unflattering light. Mr. Trump is scheduled to travel to Vietnam next week for a summit with Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea. Should the department share any damaging information about the president during his diplomatic trip, it could undermine his meeting. The president recently called Mr. Barr “a tremendous man, a tremendous person, who really respects this country and respects the Justice Department.” Even after the Mueller report has been delivered and shared, federal prosecutors in New York, Washington and possibly elsewhere will continue to investigate Mr. Trump, his businesses and other leads uncovered by the special counsel’s office. Those investigations and the possibility of criminal charges against Mr. Trump or an entity or person close to him are likely to loom over the remainder of the president’s term. Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.   ", "id": "5c6ee5f63a125f5075c0ad7c", "date": "2019-02-21T17:53:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report Puts Pressure on 2020 Candidates to Emphasize Issues", "full_text": " News Analysis The conclusion by the special counsel that President Trump did not conspire with Russia all but assures that Mr. Trump’s political fate will be determined at the ballot box next year — intensifying pressure on Democrats to settle on a candidate and a policy agenda that offers them the best chance to defeat the president. With House Democrats now far less likely to impeach Mr. Trump, and Senate Republicans certain to resist removing him if they did, the 2020 race will revolve more around his performance in office than how he won in the first place. That may disappoint some Democrats, who believe that the Russian interference on Mr. Trump’s behalf in the 2016 race makes his presidency illegitimate. But it offers the party a chance to oust him through democratic means that would be harder to dispute, rather than the divisive tactic of impeachment. So far, the response of most of the candidates to the Mueller report has been to demand that Attorney General William P. Barr release the document in full.  But some top Democrats are urging them to move past the report and instead focus on the promises they say he has failed to keep, and highlight their differences with the president on issues like immigration, tax policy and health care. “Democrats should not focus too much on Mueller,” Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago said. Pointing to signs in the market that the economy is softening, he added, “The flashing yellow light in front of this president is the bond market and the prospect of a recession.” The 2020 hopefuls may not need much convincing. On the campaign trail, few of the top-tier Democratic candidates spend much time inveighing about Mr. Trump’s links to Russia. “I hope this motivates all of us to stay focused on the issues that really impact our lives in the everyday,” Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., said in an interview on MSNBC on Sunday, adding that “part of how we lost our way in 2016 was it was much too much about him and it left a lot of people back home saying, ‘O.K., but nobody’s talking about me.’” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] But many of the presidential candidates had sidestepped questions about impeachment by pointing to the Mueller inquiry and the need to wait for its results. And that stalling tactic is no longer an option. If they now reject impeachment, that could alienate some in their activist base who are outraged by Mr. Trump’s policies and his deeply polarizing behavior. But to continue to push for a series of inquiries could irritate general election voters who loathe Washington dysfunction. Republicans moved swiftly on Sunday to portray Democrats as unrelenting Javerts hunting their Jean Valjean, a message that is likely to become central to Mr. Trump’s efforts to further solidify his base over the 19 months leading to the election. “Now Democrats are saying the special counsel’s investigation wasn’t enough and that they must continue their baseless fishing expeditions in Congress,” said Steve Guest, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.] The good news for the Democratic contenders is that most of the party’s voters have not made impeachment a litmus test: Even after Mr. Mueller delivered the report to Mr. Barr on Friday, few activists confronted the candidates at weekend appearances with questions about Russia. With Democrats winning back a foothold of power by capturing the House last year, enthusiasm for impeaching Mr. Trump has ebbed. A recent CNN survey found that 36 percent of Americans support impeaching and removing the president from office, with Democratic support falling to 68 percent from 80 percent in the months since the midterm elections. What has been top of mind for the party’s rank and file is finding a candidate who can defeat Mr. Trump. And the perception of viability will become only more of a coveted attribute now that the president heads into his re-election campaign with poor approval ratings but cleared of colluding with a foreign adversary, an allegation that had clouded his administration for almost two years. “I think most Democrats believed yesterday and they do today that Trump will be on the ballot and that he will be formidable,” said David Axelrod, the Democratic strategist. Democratic strategists were not completely disappointed to see the Mueller inquiry come to an end, even if it denied them a political weapon. They now hope liberal activists, and lawmakers, will offer party leaders the latitude to pivot to a more broadly appealing message that can win over some of the voters who only reluctantly supported Mr. Trump in 2016. “Congress should absolutely fulfill its oversight role by investigating the president’s wrongdoing, but we also have to prosecute the economic case against him,” said Stephanie Cutter, a top aide in former President Barack Obama’s re-election. “Middle-class people are paying more in taxes today because of Trump’s tax bill, and lost jobs because of an egotistical trade war. He doubled our debt, and wasted money on a wall. America is not greater today than it was when he took office. We need to tell that story, too.” Democratic officials believe there is an obvious model: the sort of kitchen table campaigns that brought the party so much success in last year’s midterm elections. “We’ve got to run campaigns on health care and taxes and beat Trump on the issues,” said Anne Caprara, who steered Gov. J. B. Pritzker of Illinois to victory last year. Ms. Caprara said that what helped Mr. Trump in 2016 was the perception that he was an outsider who would disrupt the status quo in a self-dealing capital and revive manufacturing in the Midwest. “Well, he is a typical politician: He didn’t drain the swamp, and he didn’t bring back the jobs,” she said. Mr. Trump may enjoy a short-term lift from the conclusion of the report. It will certainly draw his own political base even closer to him, affirming in their minds that he was the victim of overzealous Democrats bent on undermining his presidency. The White House press office pushed that message aggressively Sunday night, saying that Democrats had “slandered” Mr. Trump and that “this should never again happen to an American president.” But while the deepening bond between conservative voters and Mr. Trump will solidify his political foundation, it will make it harder for Republicans in heavily suburban states and districts to separate themselves from the president next year. Mr. Trump may have a firmer grip on conservatives, but he and his party are still saddled with the same problem that weighed them down when Democrats picked up 40 seats to gain a majority in the House: The up-for-grabs voters who decide elections cannot abide his incendiary conduct. And that view will remain fixed so long as the president keeps acting in ways that turn off the political center, no matter the conclusion of the Mueller report or any of the other inquiries swirling around Mr. Trump’s presidency. “Tomorrow he could call a 5-year-old a curse word,” Ms. Caprara said, “and we’d be onto a new news cycle.”   ", "id": "5c9898ef49f0eacbf105edc7", "date": "2019-03-25T09:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, North Korea Sanctions, N.C.A.A.: Your Friday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. It’s here. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William Barr. It was the apparent close of an investigation that has captivated the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. We don’t yet know the report’s contents. Mr. Barr will now decide how much of it to share with Congress and, by extension, the public. Above, Mr. Mueller leaving the Capitol in 2017. Mr. Mueller will not recommend that any new charges be filed, a senior Justice Department official said. Since Mr. Mueller’s appointment in 2017, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, and dozens of Russians were charged. Find our guides to major moments in the case, and what we already know about the main findings, lines of inquiry and players. _____ 2. The path to the report’s potential release is complicated. The House voted unanimously this month to make its findings public, and now it’s up to Attorney General William Barr, pictured above, to decide how much of it to share. In a letter to congressional leaders, he said he might brief them within days. House Democrats are already calling for the release of not only the full report, but also the underlying documents and findings. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York urged Mr. Barr not to give the White House a “sneak preview” of the report before the public can see it. Watch our video guide to how we got here. Still have questions? Ask our reporters about the latest developments and what may come next. _____ 3. President Trump rolled back sanctions against North Korea today, confusing advisers who had put them in place only a day earlier.  The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension in the Trump administration. The Treasury announced sanctions Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies it said were helping North Korea evade international sanctions. The sanctions came weeks after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, collapsed without a nuclear deal. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, in February. “President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesn’t think these sanctions will be necessary,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. _____ 4. Indonesia’s national airline wants to cancel a $4.9 billion order of dozens of Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of two deadly crashes. The move would be the first publicly confirmed cancellation attempt since the Ethiopian Airlines crash of a Max 8 that killed 157 people. Above, planes belonging to the airline, Garuda Indonesia. It’s unclear if the cancellation will move forward, as it is difficult to cancel such agreements once they have been signed. Few analysts expect other airlines to follow suit. _____ 5. Stocks fell today as the bond market flashed a recession warning. When long-term yields fall below yields on short-term bonds, it’s called a yield curve inversion. It’s one of Wall Street’s favored predictors of a recession, and these have preceded every recession over the last 60 years. And it happened on Friday. In other business news, Tesla’s sales may have dropped sharply in recent months, after a federal tax credit was reduced, according to vehicle registration data. Above, a Tesla showroom. And one industry is making an unexpected comeback: Paper mills are seeing a resurgence as online retailers like Amazon fuel demand for cardboard boxes. _____ 6. A gatekeeper for recruited athletes applying to the University of Southern California was once known as a stickler for the rules. Now, Donna Heinel, the university’s former athletic department administrator, is accused of being at the fulcrum of the nationwide scandal, conspiring with a private admissions consultant to obtain millions in bribes and then easing two dozen students into U.S.C. on bogus athletic credentials. Ms. Heinel was “as hard as it gets,” a former coach said. She meticulously combed through recruits’ files, clashing with coaches when she found flaws. Above, Ms. Heinel posing with students during a football game in 2016. One of the recruits she appeared to block from admission went to a rival university — and competed in the 2016 Olympics. Elsewhere in California, we traveled to a West Hollywood school where proctors are accused of giving test answers to students. Sign up for California Today for more West Coast news. _____ 7. The world’s largest international police organization is supposed to be a force for safety and security — one that transcends national boundaries and brings together democracies and autocracies. Instead, according to records and interviews across five continents, Interpol prioritized international expansion over safeguards, meaning despots and human rights violators could potentially use the agency to arrest people based on political motivations. Above, Interpol’s headquarters in Lyon, France. A crucial part of the system is the red notice, a kind of warrant in which police officers in one country ask foreign counterparts to make an arrest. When the system works, it helps catch murderers, rapists and sexual predators who cross national borders. But it has also been used to target refugees and dissidents. _____ 8. It’s hard enough being a teenager, balancing rigorous schoolwork with social pressures that are heightened by online platforms. Imagine being one of the few black and Hispanic students at one of the country’s most selective public schools. That’s what the 29 black students — out of 3,300 — at Stuyvesant High School in New York, pictured above, experience. Sarai Pridgen, a 16-year-old sophomore, said she wasn’t surprised when she saw that only seven black students were admitted for the fall. “It was the same wave of disappointment I feel every time I look at the demographics of this school.” _____ 9. It’s Day 2 of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament. No. 1-seeded Virginia rallied out of a deep hole to advance. It was a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16. U.C. Irvine, a 13th seed, upset No. 4 Kansas State. It was the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the Irvine program’s history. Above, the game between U.C. Irvine and Kansas State. Read live updates here. Saturday’s first game will be Maryland vs. L.S.U. at 12:10 p.m., and then Wofford versus Kentucky. _____ 10. Finally, travel changes your life. At least, that’s what Rick Steves, the PBS travel host for nearly two decades, wants you to believe. For The Times Magazine’s Voyages issue, Mr. Steves, pictured above, spoke to our writer about his desire to convert the untraveled, and his role as a sort of spiritual travel agent for America’s middle classes. Our writer asked why he doesn’t ease up on his extensive travel schedule — which occupies him for four months a year. “What would I do if I stayed home?” Mr. Steves said. “Not much. Nothing I would remember.” Have a memorable night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9569a749f0eacbf105e9a2", "date": "2019-03-22T23:01:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report News Interrupts Sunday Golf and Video Games", "full_text": " The studios at Fox News, CNN and MSNBC filled with anchors and commentators, waiting for Attorney General William P. Barr to make news on Sunday afternoon with the release of a letter summarizing the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. As the cable teams assembled, NBC News prepared to interrupt a golf tournament and ABC News got ready to break into coverage of a professional video-game contest. NBC was the first broadcast network to provide details of Mr. Barr’s four-page summary of Mr. Mueller’s far lengthier and still unpublished report. The network’s justice correspondent, Pete Williams, stood before the Justice Department headquarters in Washington and simply read aloud from the attorney general’s letter to Congress. After he was through, Kate Snow, the NBC anchor on duty, said, “Some of what you just read cold on the air is a lot of legalese.” Mr. Williams scanned the document and found a key sentence about Russia’s attempt at meddling in the 2016 presidential election: “‘The special counsel did not find that the Trump campaign or anyone associated with it conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts,’” Mr. Williams said, reading aloud. He also said that, while the report apparently did not conclude that President Trump had committed a crime, it also did not exonerate him. On CNN at roughly the same time, three correspondents, who were seated side by side (by side) in the network’s Washington studio, stared at their phone screens and called out important phrases from the Barr letter. Their well-meaning efforts were interrupted by the anchor Wolf Blitzer, who read aloud a tweet that had been posted by Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York: “‘The Special Counsel states that ‘while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,”’” Mr. Blitzer said. Mr. Blitzer ceded the stage to Jeffrey Toobin, the CNN legal analyst, who said that, in his view, Mr. Mueller’s report amounted to “total vindication of the president and his staff on the issue of collusion.” After a fanfare of timpani drums, George Stephanopoulos of ABC broke into that network’s broadcast of a professional video-game contest at 3:42, a few minutes after NBC had aired its live reading of the news-making letter. The matter of Mr. Mueller’s elusiveness came up during the ABC special report. “We never heard from the man in 22 months,” Mr. Stephanopoulos said of the special counsel. Pierre Thomas, the senior justice correspondent for ABC, nodded in agreement and recalled being told that “Robert Mueller would be the president’s best friend, if he found no evidence of collusion.” CBS waited until 3:51 to cut into its coverage of the annual men’s college basketball tournament with a 90-second report by Paula Reid, a correspondent covering the Justice Department and the White House. When a full gamut of panelists appeared on CBS, they were not news reporters, but sports commentators, and they were offering halftime analysis. “It feels like it should be more than an 8-point lead for Carolina,” Greg Gumbel said of a game between the University of Washington and the University of North Carolina. (CBS followed the game commentary with a second report from Ms. Reid and its chief White House correspondent, Major Garrett, also during halftime.) Hours before Mr. Barr had provided his rundown of the much-anticipated report — which Mr. Mueller had assembled in seemingly leakproof silence over a 22-month period — it was the main fodder for the politically oriented Sunday morning shows and early-afternoon cable news programs. Chuck Todd led a wall-to-wall discussion on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” It included commentary on whether the Democratic presidential candidate Beto O’Rourke had jumped the gun at a campaign stop on Friday when he said: “This is an unprecedented attack on this country and on our democracy, and we are owed the facts. And if we do not receive them, 243 years in, there’s nothing that guarantees us a 244th.” On “Fox News Sunday,” the program hosted by Chris Wallace, Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, said the president had been proved right in repeatedly saying “no collusion.” On the same show, Mr. Nadler called for the release of the entire report and its underlying materials. Also in the morning hours, on CNN’s “Reliable Sources,” the host Brian Stelter asked of whether reporters and talking heads had inflated expectations. He seemed to be reacting to an analytical article posted online on Saturday by the Rolling Stone journalist Matt Taibbi, who wrote that the lack of new charges emerging from the report “is a deathblow for the reputation of the American news media.” Mr. Taibbi cited instances of overreaching by some reporters and pundits to make his case. Mr. Stelter pushed back against that view. “Don’t be fooled by the partisans who cherry-pick the worst mistakes of individual journalists or the craziest ideas from commentators and claim that’s the entire media,” he said. The problem, Mr. Stelter said, lay in the competing interests of “agenda-driven columnists” and “journalists who report the news.” He put Joy-Ann Reid, of MSNBC, and Jesse Watters, of Fox News, in the agenda-driven camp. Then he rolled a clip of Ms. Reid suggesting that Mr. Barr may have an interest in covering up the facts; and another of Mr. Watters characterizing the Mueller report as “a knockout blow to the Democrats and the press who say, ‘Collusion, collusion, collusion.’” The Nixon-era reporting led by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of The Washington Post seemed newly exceptional, now that Mr. Mueller’s work was done. Mr. Bernstein, a CNN contributor who was a guest on Mr. Stelter’s show, praised recent coverage of President Trump and the allegations that have surrounded him. He singled out the journalism of The Wall Street Journal — owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation — as a sign that democracy was working. Noting its assiduously reported articles on Mr. Trump, Mr. Bernstein said, “It ought to be stressed that the same owner of Fox News published these stories in his paper.”  ", "id": "5c980f7649f0eacbf105ece7", "date": "2019-03-24T23:13:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Notre-Dame Cathedral, Mueller Report, Boston Marathon: Your Monday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. Fire ravaged the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. Thousands of people watched in shock from the banks of the Seine, and many more were riveted to television screens, as flames tore through the beloved medieval landmark’s wooden roof. Its iconic spire collapsed. Gray smoke filled the Paris sky into the night as firefighters struggled to contain the blaze, which officials said had begun in the attic. Here’s the latest. No cause was identified as of this writing, nor any injuries. The cathedral had been undergoing extensive renovations, including work on the spire. We have photos and video of the disaster, and a short history of this scarred jewel of Gothic architecture. _____ 2. In the U.S., President Trump visited Burnsville, Minn., for a round table on the economy and tax reform, above. That took him near the district represented by one of his new political targets: Ilhan Omar, a Democrat and one of the first Muslim women elected to Congress. He has portrayed her remarks addressing the suspicions directed at American Muslims after Sept. 11 as dismissive of the terrorist attacks. She has reported a rise in death threats against her. And we have the back story on a meeting at the White House last month that set off the purge of homeland security officials. The key ingredient: the fury of Stephen Miller, the 33-year-old White House senior adviser, that they had not put into effect the policies he pushed. _____ 3. The Mueller report will be released to Congress and the public on Thursday, the Justice Department said. Attorney General William Barr will offer the report after lawyers from Justice and the office of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, finish reviewing the voluminous report on the 22-month investigation. They’re blacking out passages involving secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other sensitive information. _____ 4. Meanwhile, it’s tax day for most of the U.S. People in Maine and Massachusetts, which celebrate holidays today, have until midnight Wednesday. We assessed how the Trump administration’s tax cuts appear to be unfolding. Senator Bernie Sanders, pictured above at a rally in Pittsburgh on Sunday, disclosed 10 years of his tax returns. They show a sharp rise in income following his first presidential bid, when he built up a national following and his books sold widely. That income, more than $1 million, puts him in the top 1 percent of taxpayers. We’re also watching for campaign finance declarations from all the presidential candidates, including Pete Buttigieg, who joined the field over the weekend. Their deadline is midnight. _____ 5. At least 17 tornadoes ripped through Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and Ohio over the weekend, and powerful storms swept across the South to the Northeast. Nine people, including three children, were killed — though none, amazingly, in the flattened town of Franklin, Tex., above. _____ 6. A New York miracle: The three people in the small plane above were spared a probably fatal crash on Sunday night — by getting tangled up in aboveground utility cables. The plane had run out of fuel above Long Island as it circled for a seventh attempt to land in thick fog. The three aboard, all men from Flushing, were uninjured, except, the police said, for a single sprained finger. ___ 7. One of our most-read articles today is about how some cities are considering using their relative stability in the face of climate change as a demographic lure. The mayor in Duluth, Minn., has been intrigued by the idea of becoming a climate refuge. “It’s not as cold as you think,” goes one possible slogan. Above, skiers on Lake Superior last month. Buffalo has floated the idea as well. Separately, there was sad news for bike-share riders who’ve come to love a power assist. Lyft-owned companies pulled their electric bikes from New York, San Francisco and Washington. Dozens of riders have reported injuries while riding, possibly because the front-wheel braking is too powerful. _____ 8. Triumphs in sport. In the Boston Marathon, Lawrence Cherono of Kenya, above left, beat Lelisa Desisa of Ethiopia to the men’s victory by just a stride, in 2:07:57, while Worknesh Degefa of Ethiopia ran away from the field of women, finishing in 2:23:31. In the push rim wheelchair competition, Daniel Romanchuk, a 20-year-old American, became the youngest winner, in 1:21:36. Manuela Schar of Switzerland won the women’s event for a second time, at 1:34:19. And the awe over Tiger Woods’s win at the Masters on Sunday is far from over — he’s joined the ranks of the greatest comebacks in sports history. _____ 9. Pulitzer Prizes:  The Sun Sentinel of South Florida won the prize for public service, the most prestigious of the annual awards for journalism, for its coverage of the deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Above, the reaction in the newsroom. The Times celebrated two: one for the investigative team that unmasked the dubious tax schemes President Trump and his siblings used to avoid taxes on hundreds of millions of dollars from their father’s real estate empire; and one for editorial writing, for essays by Brent Staples that helped rewrite the history of race in America. Here’s the full list of winners. _____ 10. And finally, for your entertainment: Our television editor himself recapped Episode 1 of the final season of “Game of Thrones.” (Do we need to warn you? Spoilers!) Or let this thoughtful exploration of the attraction of animal videos give you permission to enjoy a few. Or skip right over to this epic face-off: bird versus cat. Have a delightful evening. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cb5067549f0eacbf1f84592", "date": "2019-04-15T22:30:50+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Mueller Report, Brexit, N.C.A.A.: Your Friday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. “Everyone will soon be able to read it.” That was Attorney General William Barr, who said he planned to publicly release a redacted version of the 400-page Mueller report by mid-April, if not sooner. In his letter to the chairmen of the congressional judiciary committees, above, Mr. Barr added that the White House would not see the document before he sent it to Congress. He plans to testify on Capitol Hill in early May, shortly after the report is released, to discuss it with lawmakers. In other news out of Washington, President Trump warned he would close the Mexican border “next week” over immigration, escalating a repeated threat — but one he has not acted on. _____ 2. Brexit is in ruins: Parliament rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan for a third time, just two weeks before the April 12 date to leave the E.U. The vote effectively sets the process back to square one almost three years after Britons voted to leave. On Monday, Parliament will try to muster a majority for an alternative path to leaving the bloc, and then challenge Mrs. May to make it work. If that fails, the country faces the very real possibility of leaving the E.U. without a deal, which many fear will have grave economic implications, or requesting another extension from the bloc’s leaders. One man is trying to make sense of Brexit, one flowchart at a time. He would like to stop now. _____ 3. Venezuela agreed to let the Red Cross deliver aid. It’s the first tacit admission by President Nicolás Maduro of a humanitarian crisis. Access to and the distribution of basic supplies have become a main battleground between Mr. Maduro and the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, who have both attempted to control supplies of aid for political advantage. The Red Cross, pictured above in Caracas, said it would begin delivery of medical supplies as soon as mid-April. In other international news, we visited a camp in Syria where women and children who fled ISIS territory are stuck in limbo after the group’s collapse. _____ 3. Lyft began trading at $87 a share, soaring above its public offering price and reflecting investor demand for fast-growing tech companies. Some of the gains faded soon after the debut, but at the I.P.O. price, Lyft had a market value of over $24 billion, making it one of the most valuable American companies to go public in the last decade. As unicorn companies like Lyft ride into the public markets, their elite early investors will be the biggest winners. But not everyone who invested in the company is reaping the spoils. _____ 5. A measles outbreak among ultra-Orthodox Jews is spreading fear and stoking tensions with secular neighbors in a New York suburb. The authorities in Rockland County declared a state of emergency over the outbreak and have traced the spread of measles to ultra-Orthodox families whose children have not been vaccinated. Above, a father and child in Monsey, N.Y. Some residents are now wiping public bus seats and crossing the street when they see ultra-Orthdox Jews. Hasidic leaders in the area are concerned about a rise in anti-Semitism and public health authorities stepping into their cloistered community. _____ 6. Prison transport companies have been involved in more than 50 crashes, 60 escapes and 19 deaths since 2000. But no one holds them accountable — even when people die. Federal agencies that are supposed to oversee the industry almost never act, and because the vans, like the one pictured above, cross state and county lines, local officials can say they don’t have jurisdiction. In conjunction with The Marshall Project, we took a look at how one company has dodged responsibility for one inmate, Johnny Smith, who was charged with possession of a single oxycodone pill. He died in the back of a prison van in 2011. The for-profit company owes his family $650,000, and it still hasn’t paid. _____ 7. Opening day set expectations very high. The Los Angeles Dodgers had eight home runs, breaking the opening-day record (the final score was 12-5). Bryce Harper made his debut with the Philadelphia Phillies after signing a 13-year, $330 million contract. Robinson Cano and Jacob deGrom led the Mets to a win. And the Yankees clobbered the Baltimore Orioles 7-2. Our baseball columnist considers what it means for their World Series prospects. In the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament: The East and Midwest regions face off beginning just after 7 p.m. in the latest round of 16 play, including No. 1 Duke vs. No. 4 Virginia Tech, and No. 1 North Carolina vs. Auburn. Here’s what to expect from the women’s round of 16, which begins tonight. _____ 8. Billie Eilish has already had a billion plays of her songs, appeared with Ellen DeGeneres and Jimmy Fallon and performed to large sold-out crowds. Ms. Eilish, 17, is just getting started. Her striking aesthetic is what our music critic calls a “collective middle finger to the strictures of teen-pop sex appeal,” with the musicality of an “edgy, genre-agnostic (but playlist-friendly) fusion that sounds like pop and streams like hip-hop.” She may very well become a household name. In other debuts, Salman Rushdie reviews a sweeping new novel about the roots of modern Zambia. And what’s old is new again: On Monday, a new generation of viewers will get its own version of “The Twilight Zone” with Jordan Peele’s revival. Here’s why we still care about the series. _____ 9. Moving on to the lost history of one of the world’s strangest science experiments, and one of our most read stories today: In a news analysis in this weekend’s Sunday Review, our science columnist Carl Zimmer takes a look at the significance of Biosphere 2, which opened in 1991 in Arizona. Its geodesic domes and pyramids contained a miniature rain forest, a mangrove, a desert, a coral reef — and eight people, sealed inside to see if they could survive. Above, candidates for the Biosphere 2 with test modules in 1988. “The project would later be dismissed as a folly and a waste of effort,” he writes. “And yet, 25 years on, it’s an experiment worth rediscovering. Biosphere 2 might have some lessons to offer about managing Biosphere 1 — our planet.” _____ 10. Finally, a grumpy cat mystery is solved. For three decades, bright orange novelty phones shaped like the cartoon cat Garfield kept washing up on the shoreline of Brittany, in western France. Nobody knew where they came from, until now. Volunteers cleaning the beaches last week discovered a long-lost shipping container in a craggy nook. Because of rising tides, the sea cave is accessible only a few days each year. Once advertised by Tyco as “real phones for real fun,” they are now mostly a real nuisance along the Brittany coast. Have a lazy weekend. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9e927149f0eacbf1101463", "date": "2019-03-29T21:45:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Russians Hope Mueller Report Opens Door to Improved U.S. Ties", "full_text": " MOSCOW — There was crowing in Russia on Monday that the special counsel’s investigation did not find coordination between Moscow and the Trump campaign in 2016, but optimism about improved relations was tempered by the report’s extensive focus on Russian meddling in the presidential election. Official reaction to a summary of Robert S. Mueller III’s report that was released on Sunday proved decidedly muted. Dmitri S. Peskov, the spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin, told reporters that the only news in the summary was the “recognition that there wasn’t any collusion,” and he repeated his denial that Russia had interfered in the American election. Mr. Putin has maintained a steady interest in good relations with the United States, he said, while American actions toward Russia have been erratic, so the ball is in Washington’s court. From others in the Kremlin elite, however, the main refrain was “we told you so,” along with some hope that President Trump would now be free to pursue his campaign goal of improving relations with Russia. “Mueller’s long-awaited report proved what was known in Russia from the very beginning,” Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the upper house of the Russian Parliament, wrote on Facebook. “There was no collusion between Trump and any of his team with Russia.” Rossiya 24, the main state television news channel, was more mocking, saying it took tens of millions of dollars for “the mountain to bring forth a mouse.” The full report has not been released, and an extended battle is expected in Washington over its fate. But the four-page summary issued by Attorney General William P. Barr noted twice that the investigation had not established that the Kremlin and the Trump campaign had worked together in the Russian meddling. “The Special Counsel did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in these efforts, despite multiple offers from Russian-affiliated individuals to assist the Trump campaign,” Mr. Barr’s summary said. Mr. Kosachev said he regretted the two lost years during which Russian-American relations were hampered by sanctions and continued accusations of wrongdoing. Various officials and analysts said they hoped that there would be new initiatives soon toward Russia from the Trump administration, but there were varying degrees of optimism about when this might happen and how substantial they might be. “To some extent, the leader of the United States now has greater room to maneuver, which, in principle, he can use,” Mr. Kosachev wrote. Still, he noted, Congress retains significant control over lifting sanctions, and hawks like John R. Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, will not necessarily endorse improving ties. “In any case, there is a chance to reset to zero a lot in our relations,” Mr. Kosachev said, “but will Trump take that risk — for now it’s a question.” There are, of course, serious issues dividing Moscow and the West that are unrelated to the 2016 election or the Mueller investigation: Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, its alliance with Iran and support for President Bashar al-Assad in Syria’s civil war, its backing of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela and the poisoning of a retired Russian spy and his daughter with a nerve agent in Britain. “I don’t think this will change much,” said Aleksei V. Makarkin, an analyst with the Center for Political Technologies, a Moscow think tank. The myriad areas of conflict “do not allow us to consider these relations with optimism,” he said. Others noted that a significant portion of the Mueller report summary addressed Russian efforts to sway the 2016 presidential election and damage Mr. Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton. One element of that effort was the work of the St. Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency to sow social discord in the United States through a disinformation campaign. Another involved computer hacking, especially of the Clinton campaign, to obtain information that could influence the election. The investigation resulted in indictments against 26 Russians, many of them government intelligence officers, and three Russian companies, although there is no real expectation that they will ever stand trial. Aleksandr Morozov, a frequent Kremlin critic, noted that the report confirmed Russian interference in the election. The Kremlin can hope either to reset relations, to wait until the damage fades or to continue with business as usual, said Mr. Morozov, a researcher at the Boris Nemtsov Academic Center for the Study of Russia branch in Prague. Moscow will probably choose to continue with its campaign of disinformation and disruption against American democracy, he said in an interview. “It is difficult to imagine that relations can get better now,” he said. “So that means that the Kremlin will try to continue with the hybrid war and also attempt to push this event out of the Russian-American agenda with the help of some new ones.” Analysts of all stripes said that without the cloud of the Mueller investigation over him, Mr. Trump might return to his idea of a grand bargain with Mr. Putin, something he had appeared to put on the back burner as the accusations swirled. “Now he can say this is my political plan and not the result of any wrongdoing,” said Ivan I. Kurilla, a historian at the European University at St. Petersburg who specializes in Russian-American relations. Whether that will be enough to clear a path for Mr. Trump is another matter. The Kremlin is cautious about his mercurial moods, and Democrats will continue to challenge the president over Russian actions, particularly the election meddling described by Mr. Mueller. “He is not seen as a reliable partner for Russia,” said Dmitri Trenin, the head of the Carnegie Moscow Center. “Russia will continue to be what it has been for the last two years in the United States, a political football kicked around by all sides.” Mr. Kurilla said there was a panoply of issues on which talks could at least get started, ranging from smaller disputes like the recent mutual expulsion of diplomats and closing of consulates to larger issues like the war in Ukraine, arms control or the situation in Venezuela. Compared with the summit meetings that Mr. Trump has held with the leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un, Mr. Putin may seem a far more important, more tempting target, he said. “I always see Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea as a rehearsal of what he was going to do with Putin,” Mr. Kurilla said. “A meeting of two strong men, and some big deal to make the world less dangerous. He will probably return to the idea of some bargain, some grand deal between Russia and the United States.” Still, any change will take time. “I don’t expect Trump to lift the sanctions and he and Putin to embrace each other tomorrow,” Mr. Kurilla said. Ivan Nechepurenko and Andrew Kramer contributed reporting. Follow Neil MacFarquhar on Twitter: @NeilMacFarquhar.   ", "id": "5c98c14149f0eacbf105ee35", "date": "2019-03-25T11:52:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Will We Ever See Mueller’s Report on Trump? Maybe", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The swirl of speculation surrounding the Russia investigation often assumes that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will release a report of his findings that will serve as the definitive explanation of how Russia interfered in the 2016 election and whether President Trump or his associates coordinated with Moscow. But there is no such guarantee. The law does not require the Justice Department to release a report, and Mr. Mueller has been silent on the issue. Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, said at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday that he wanted to release as much of what Mr. Mueller found as possible. But he said he needed to learn more about the report and the regulations that govern his releasing information from it before deciding what to do about disclosing the findings. That answer did not satisfy leading Senate Democrats, who said on Wednesday that they would oppose Mr. Barr’s nomination unless he agreed to release the entire report Mr. Mueller produces, except for redactions of sensitive national security information. Because the government has issued plenty of big reports after important investigations into national catastrophes and scandals. Commissions that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks and the failure to find weapons of mass destruction after the invasion of Iraq, for example, produced book-length public reports that became part of the historical record. Similarly, Ken Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Bill Clinton over the Whitewater and Monica Lewinsky scandals, gave Congress a long report that lawmakers voted to make public. It provided a detailed narrative description of the evidence, including lurid sexual details, and extensive legal analysis of potential crimes by the president. That does not always happen. Nearly a half-century ago, the special counsel investigating President Richard M. Nixon over the Watergate scandal, Leon Jaworski, had a grand jury send to Congress a terse report containing spare factual statements with citations of evidence and no legal analysis. This report, known as the “Road Map,” was kept secret until last year. But Mr. Mueller is working under a different set of rules than any of those investigators. In 1999, partly in reaction to perceptions that Mr. Starr had overreached, Congress let the independent counsel law expire. The Justice Department wrote new regulations allowing for special counsels who can investigate high-level executive-branch wrongdoing with some day-to-day independence but ultimately under the supervision of the attorney general. The officials who wrote the regulations sought to prevent the sort of “extravagant” steps Mr. Starr had taken in writing his report, according to Neal Katyal, a former Justice Department official who drafted the rules. “There is no doubt that when you are writing regs like that in the midst of a really public thing like the Starr Report, it’s going to influence your thinking, and definitely it did,” he said. “There were concerns about the privacy violations that occurred in the Starr Report.” The regulation instructs Mr. Mueller to give the attorney general “a confidential report” when he has finished his investigation explaining his decisions about whom to prosecute and whom not to charge. The attorney general, in turn, must send a report to Congress explaining why the work has concluded. The attorney general is also free to decide that issuing that report would be in the public interest, as long as it is released lawfully. The Justice Department’s explanation of the special counsel regulations, filed in the Federal Register in 1999, criticized the old independent counsel law’s system where prosecutors filed reports directly to Congress that typically were made public, as in the Starr investigation. Instead, officials called for special counsels to write confidential summaries to the attorney general about their charging decisions and for the attorney general’s report to Congress to be a “brief notification” that the investigation was closed and why. To be sure, Mr. Mueller has already disclosed significant investigative findings by writing and unsealing lengthy narrative indictments, especially of Russians involved in the operations to manipulate American social media and hack Democratic emails. But that method has limited value for understanding the actions of people he does not indict. If Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, finds evidence that Mr. Trump broke the law, he will have decisions to make about how to proceed. We explain them. He has said he is still trying to figure it out. While Mr. Barr repeatedly emphasized that he wants to make public as much information as he can about the special counsel investigation, he stopped short of making commitments — emphasizing that certain rules might hamstring him and that he had not yet been briefed on Mr. Mueller’s investigation. He also said he wanted to speak to Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed the special counsel, to see what they were already thinking. “I don’t know what, at the end of the day, what will be releasable,” he said at his confirmation hearing. “I don’t know what Bob Mueller is writing.” Mr. Barr left open possibilities including drafting his own summary of the findings, should he be confirmed as attorney general, as expected. “There are different reports at work here,” Mr. Barr said. “Under the current regulations, the special counsel report is confidential, and the report that goes public would be a report by the attorney general.” That answer failed to placate Democrats and left confusion about his ultimate intentions. On Wednesday, one of the witnesses at his hearing, Neil Kinkopf, a Georgia State University law professor and former Justice Department official in the Obama and Clinton administrations, flagged the ambiguity with concern, saying Mr. Barr seemed to be interpreting the regulation to mean that the attorney general should release his own report, not turn over Mr. Mueller’s. Whether Mr. Barr ends up relaying a redacted version of Mr. Mueller’s report or instead writes his own, he most likely will have to keep grand jury testimony secret. He also may withhold classified information that could reveal intelligence sources and methods still being used to spy on the Russian government, like any moles or wiretaps. Mr. Barr also noted that the Justice Department typically keeps confidential so-called declination memos where prosecutors explain what they uncovered about anyone they decide not to prosecute. On Wednesday, Mr. Kinkopf noted that the Justice Department had taken the position that sitting presidents could not be indicted while in office. If Mr. Barr strictly enforces the view that department policy forbids putting out negative information about people whom prosecutors declined to charge, he said, that would prevent Justice Department officials from releasing information about Mr. Trump’s actions. Mr. Katyal said there was one way around that. The special counsel regulation requires Mr. Barr to tell Congress about any instance in which he overruled a step Mr. Mueller proposed, so if Mr. Mueller were to suggest indicting Mr. Trump, the attorney general report would have to discuss that. For one thing, information could leak to the news media. If any Mueller report is leaked, that would most likely cause a firestorm, especially if it contained unredacted classified information and evidence subject to grand-jury secrecy rules. The House Judiciary Committee, now controlled by Democrats, could also seek to subpoena the report. If Mr. Trump asserts executive privilege to avoid turning it over, the House could ask a judge to order it handed over. House Democrats could similarly seek to subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify about his findings. Mr. Trump could also seek to gag Mr. Mueller by invoking executive privilege, although it is not clear that he would succeed. The president’s personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani has suggested that in addition to potentially invoking executive privilege, the White House may seek to edit a report that will go to Congress “so we can correct it if they’re wrong.” Mr. Barr said on Tuesday that he would not allow such a move: “That will not happen.”   ", "id": "5c3fc8543a125f5075c04cd5", "date": "2019-01-17T00:12:01+0000"}]