[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen Resigned", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump says he's accepted the resignation of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen. Trump announced the resignation in a tweet on Sunday. Two sources said Nielsen went to the White House Sunday to speak with Trump following their trip to the border late last week. The people say she has been frustrated by difficulty getting other departments to help with the growing number of families coming crossing the border. Nielsen had been on the chopping block before. Trump threatened to fire her and she previously considered resigning, but officials at the time recognized there were no obvious successors in place. The people were not authorized to speak publicly about internal matters and spoke to The AP on condition of anonymity.", "id": "5cad49cb49f0eacbf1f822b9", "date": "2019-04-10T01:40:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Trump’s Purge of Homeland Security", "full_text": " Good Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • A day after forcing the resignation of Kirstjen Nielsen as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, President Trump has accelerated a purge of the nation’s immigration and security leadership: At least five senior officials have been pushed out or are expected to leave. • Ms. Nielsen is the latest in a long and growing line of senior officials who have left the administration unceremoniously. • Temporary status is a seemingly permanent condition of the Trump administration. Mr. Trump has named a new “acting” secretary for homeland security, another in a series of interim appointments that avoid a confirmation fight with Congress. • The clearing out of homeland security officials is a sign that Mr. Trump is preparing to unleash an even fiercer assault on immigration, including a possible return to separating migrant children from their parents, current and former administration officials said. • The federal government wants to issue more H-2B visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields — even as Mr. Trump seeks to seal off the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from. • Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel vowed to annex parts of the West Bank, openly disregarding four decades of American policy. Nothing emboldened Mr. Netanyahu more than the support of his ally, Mr. Trump. • Mr. Trump on Monday designated a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization. It’s the first time that the United States has made that categorization for a part of another nation’s government. • Three American service members and one contractor were killed after a bomb detonated near Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, the Defense Department said. • Representative Eric Swalwell, a fourth-term congressman from California and a frequent guest on cable news, became the 18th Democrat to join the 2020 race. • Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota raised more than $5.2 million for her presidential bid in the first quarter of the year. • The Justice Department announced that it had finished implementing the major parts of a sweeping criminal justice overhaul passed late last year, after a delay prompted in part by the government shutdown and turnover at the top of the department. • The Chinese woman arrested after gaining entry to Mar-a-Lago with four cellphones containing malware had even more electronics in her hotel room, including a device used to detect hidden cameras. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cac1a9849f0eacbf1f81bd8", "date": "2019-04-09T04:06:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Conservatives Push Kris Kobach for Homeland Security Head", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Outside allies of President Donald Trump have launched a public campaign urging him to nominate former Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach as his next secretary of Homeland Security. That's despite the uphill battle Kobach would likely face getting confirmed by the Senate. NumbersUSA, a group that seeks to reduce immigration rates, released a statement Tuesday saying there is \"no one more qualified\" for the job and claiming Kobach has the support of Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials. They're also rallying to defend Lee Francis Cissna, the director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, whose job is said to be in danger. Kobach did not response to a request for comment Tuesday morning. The White House declined to comment on the push.", "id": "5caf82c249f0eacbf1f82ede", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Factbox: Possible Successors to Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Several names surfaced on Monday as possible successors to U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, who resigned on Sunday after 16 months managing President Donald Trump's turbulent immigration agenda. Amid a surge in the number of migrants at the border with Mexico, Nielsen stepped down and will be replaced temporarily by Kevin McAleenan, current head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. As Trump seeks a permanent nominee to send to the Republican-controlled Senate for confirmation, here are some possible successors whose names have already been floated by sources talking to Reuters and in media reports. None immediately responded to requests for comment. RICK PERRY Trump's energy secretary has kept a relatively low profile since winning confirmation by a vote of 62 to 37. As Texas governor from 2000 to 2015, Perry was on the front lines during a spike in migrants seeking asylum in 2014. He opposed building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border at the time, but now supports Trump's signature domestic policy.  KEN CUCCINELLI The former Virginia attorney general visited the White House last week amid reports that Trump was searching for an \"immigration czar\" to coordinate policy across the government. As attorney general and state senator, Cuccinelli developed a reputation as a conservative hard-liner on a range of issues, including immigration. He has called for denying citizenship to U.S.-born children whose parents are in the country illegally, and authorized law enforcement officials to investigate the immigration status of anyone they stopped.  He lost a bid for governor in 2013, and recently has been involved with the Senate Conservatives Fund, a political group that supports right-leaning candidates. KRIS KOBACH The former Kansas secretary of state has built a national reputation as an uncompromising opponent of illegal immigration. Since losing the Kansas governor's race last November, Kobach has been angling for a job in the Trump administration, telling Breitbart News over the weekend that he would be open to serving as a White House immigration \"czar.\" He also proposed blocking illegal immigrants from sending money back to Mexico.  Kobach could have a hard time winning Senate confirmation due to his hard-line views and unsuccessful 2018 campaign, where he lost to a Democrat in a heavily Republican state. FRAN TOWNSEND A former homeland security advisor to President George W. Bush, Townsend now is an analyst for CBS television. She says Trump considered her as a possible replacement for FBI Director James Comey after he was fired in 2017. KEVIN MCALEENAN As commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, McAleenan said last month that the immigration system was at a \"breaking point.\" A career law enforcement official, McAleenan has served on and off in the division since its inception after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. McAleenan has won the respect of Republicans and Democrats and easily won confirmation to his current post in March 2018 by a vote of 77 to 19. He has pushed Congress to detain families seeking asylum until their cases are heard in court, rather than releasing them. However, he has not always lined up with Trump's aggressive approach to border security. He has praised the effectiveness of U.S. aid to Central America, which Trump has threatened to cut off.  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh and Alistair Bell)", "id": "5caba83649f0eacbf1f81aab", "date": "2019-04-08T19:58:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Inside 12 Days of Turmoil That Shook Homeland Security", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump had had it. The flow of migrants at the southern border was surging. Another caravan appeared to be forming. And his government had run out of holding space, forcing the release of tens of thousands of families apprehended at the border. During a meeting with senior aides on the last Thursday in March, Trump demanded drastic action to make good on the threat he'd tweeted that morning: Shut the southern border. Curbing illegal immigration was his signature issue, he railed. Why couldn't he deliver? Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen urged the president to reconsider. Her agency had already diverted hundreds of border agents away from certain crossings to process migrant families elsewhere, creating what would soon become considerable bottlenecks. Closing ports completely, she reasoned, would only encourage migrants to cross elsewhere — illegally. Trump wasn't having it. Shut the ports at El Paso, Texas, at noon tomorrow, he ordered. End of meeting. The directive set off a frantic behind-the scenes push to get Trump to change his mind, and he ultimately relented. But the episode launched a turbulent 12-day stretch that would lead to the eventual resignation of Nielsen, the potential dismissal of much of her agency's top leadership and the beginning of a new phase in which immigration hard-liners at the White House are determined to wield considerably more influence over Homeland Security. This account is based on interviews with 20 administration officials, congressional aides and people familiar with the events, many of whom spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss internal deliberations. ___ ON BORROWED TIME Trump and Nielsen's relationship was never especially close. Nielsen had been picked for the top Homeland Security job at the urging of her predecessor, John Kelly, who left to become Trump's White House chief of staff. Trump had always been suspicious of her, in part because she'd worked for former President George W. Bush. She had been widely expected to leave the department last fall after Kelly's departure from the White House, but she appeared to get back on Trump's good side during the government shutdown, when she served as one of the top defenders of his push to build a southern border wall. But Nielsen took the brunt of Trump's fury over rising border crossing numbers, and the situation was only getting worse. Aides spent months desperately trying to come up with new solutions, and some tried to steer Trump away from more drastic measures, including his talk of reinstating the family separation policy that prompted international outrage. While Nielsen had doubts at times, she had dutifully carried out Trump's orders, taking ownership of his most divisive policies, including the family separations, and spending months trying to broker arrangements with Central American countries, including Mexico. But it also fell to Nielsen to explain to Trump the legal limits of things he wanted to do. And he didn't like it. It didn't help that Kelly had been critical of Trump in appearances since he left the White House — something Trump held against Nielsen. Or that John Bolton, Trump's national security adviser, had been pushing for Nielsen's ouster since last fall, telling Trump he didn't think her leadership or policies were effective. ___ A TRIP CUT SHORT Nielsen had just landed in Europe last week for her first time as secretary when she decided to rush back to Washington, landing early Tuesday morning. Though aides had succeeded in talking Trump down from his border closure threat the week before, he had continued to crank up his rhetoric, warning by tweet that if Mexico didn't \"immediately stop ALL illegal immigration coming into the United States through our Southern Border,\" he would be \"CLOSING\" the border, or large sections of it within a week. But the night before Trump's visit, a puzzling notice arrived on Capitol Hill: Trump was withdrawing his nomination of Ron Vitiello to permanently lead the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency. It had to be a mistake, staffers reasoned. Why would Trump be spiking his own nominee, a well-respected and longtime border official who appeared to be cruising to confirmation? Vitiello got a call that night from senior Trump aide Stephen Miller informing him that he wouldn't be joining the president on his trip to the border the next morning. There was no explanation. Nielsen had received no heads-up. But word began to spread that his nomination was being yanked. \"We want to go in a tougher direction\" was all Trump told reporters as he left the White House on Friday morning. It was Step One of the plot to purge DHS leadership. Nielsen joined Trump at the border, echoing his words at a roundtable with border officers and local law enforcement and standing by Trump's side as they toured a section of newly rebuilt border fencing, introducing him to local officials. But inside she was fuming. ___ DUSTING OFF A LETTER Nielsen returned to Washington on a Coast Guard Gulfstream as Trump continued onto California and Nevada to do some fundraising. By that night, murmurs were swirling that Vitiello's removal wasn't a one-off and that Miller was orchestrating a wholesale leadership overhaul of her department. Already frustrated by what she saw as insufficient help from departments like Justice and Health and Human Services, with clear signs that White House hard-liners were on the ascent, Nielsen pulled up the resignation letter she'd written months before — just in case. She went into a Sunday White House meeting with Trump that she'd requested not sure if she'd be fired, resign or stay to fight another day. It was, by all accounts, a cordial conversation in the Yellow Oval Room of the White House residence, with acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney in attendance. Nielsen had come prepared with a list of ideas to share with the president. But the two quickly agreed the arrangement was no longer working. Trump wanted to go in a different direction. Nielsen resigned on the spot. Trump tweeted the news before she could get her letter out. ___ THE PURGE Standing outside her home in Alexandria, Virginia, on Monday, Nielsen sounded just as loyal to Trump as she had at the border. \"I will continue to support all efforts to address the humanitarian and security crisis,\" she said, thanking the president \"for the tremendous opportunity to serve this country.\" \"It's time to do things a little differently,\" White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said on Fox News Channel. \"And so the president's looking around to reshape his team so he can have the people in place to carry out his agenda.\" ___ Associated Press writer Zeke Miller contributed to this report.", "id": "5cae415c49f0eacbf1f826e0", "date": "2019-04-10T19:16:17+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kirstjen Nielsen Resigns as Trump’s Homeland Security Secretary", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, resigned on Sunday after meeting with President Trump, ending a tumultuous tenure in charge of the border security agency that had made her the target of the president’s criticism. “I have determined that it is the right time for me to step aside,” Ms. Nielsen said in a resignation letter. “I hope that the next secretary will have the support of Congress and the courts in fixing the laws which have impeded our ability to fully secure America’s borders and which have contributed to discord in our nation’s discourse.” Ms. Nielsen had requested the meeting to plan “a way forward” at the border, in part thinking she could have a reasoned conversation with Mr. Trump about the role, according to three people familiar with the meeting. She came prepared with a list of things that needed to change to improve the relationship with the president. Mr. Trump in recent weeks had asked Ms. Nielsen to close the ports of entry along the border and to stop accepting asylum seekers, which Ms. Nielsen found ineffective and inappropriate. While the 30-minute meeting was cordial, Mr. Trump was determined to ask for her resignation. After the meeting, she submitted it. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Jessica Cheung and Eric Krupke, and edited by Paige Cowett As homeland security secretary, she enacted and publicly defended the family separation policy. In President Trump’s eyes, she didn’t go far enough. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: The secretary of homeland security was forced out of her job, even after carrying out and defending President Trump’s most restrictive immigration policies. Why that wasn’t enough. It’s Tuesday, April 9. Caitlin, describe what happened over the weekend. caitlin dickerson So on Sunday, Kirstjen Nielsen, who’s the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security — she’s the nation’s highest-ranking immigration officer — she goes to the White House for an unscheduled meeting with President Trump. michael barbaro Caitlin Dickerson covers immigration for The Times. caitlin dickerson And he, in recent weeks, has been very riled up publicly over an increasing number of people crossing the border, especially families who seek asylum who have legal protections that mean they have to be allowed into the country. So the secretary arrives at her meeting with a list of ideas for how to address this problem, and she thinks she and the president are going to come up with a way forward. But instead, a few hours later, the president sends a tweet announcing that she will be leaving her job. archived recording 1 Breaking news here on CNN. From the White House, the secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen, has resigned. archived recording 2 President Trump made the announcement via Twitter. archived recording 3 In a tweet, the president said, quote, “Secretary of homeland security Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, and I would like to thank her for her service.” archived recording 4 So it appears that the president is swinging the revolving door yet again, trying to install new people in his administration to carry out his bidding. michael barbaro That sounds like a meeting that went very poorly for the secretary. caitlin dickerson Clearly, they were not able to come up with a solution that both could agree on. michael barbaro And by tweeting her resignation, I think what we’re politely suggesting is that he fired her. caitlin dickerson Fired her. Yes, exactly. michael barbaro So what is the history between President Trump and Secretary Nielsen? caitlin dickerson So Secretary Nielsen takes her job at the end of 2017. She’s replacing her former boss, John Kelly, who went to be President Trump’s chief of staff. And she takes on this role as basically the person who has to approve any new policy that’s going to be introduced along the border. And it’s at this period of time when, I think, the President is settling into his role. He’s fired up about really coming up with some hard evidence that he can point to ahead of the midterm elections, for example, and say, look, I’m keeping my campaign promises, and I’m lowering immigration really dramatically. So right away, she’s faced with aggressive ideas for how to prevent people from coming to the United States, and the first one is family separation. michael barbaro And what do we know about how Nielsen responds to that very controversial policy when it is first introduced to her? caitlin dickerson She slow-walks it. We reported in December of 2017 that a family separation policy had reached her desk for that final signature, and it took her four months to approve it, during which time she and President Trump clashed quite a bit. She had questions about the legality of it. She had questions about the practicality and how the public was going to respond. And she had just a lot of reservations about moving forward. But ultimately, she agreed, and the policy was introduced in a formal way in April. archived recording 1 Quit separating the kids! They’re separating the children. Mr. President, don’t you have kids? Don’t you have kids, Mr. President? archived recording 2 I don’t believe in this. This is not America. This is not our country. This is not what we should be doing. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) This administration did not create a policy of separating families at the border. archived recording Shame on everybody that separates children and allows them to stay at the other side of the border, fearing death, and allow the secretary to come here and lie. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) Calling me a liar are fighting words. I’m not a liar. We’ve never had a policy for family separation. And let’s be clear — if an American were to commit a crime anywhere in the United States, they would go to jail, and they would be separated from their family. This is not a controversial idea. caitlin dickerson Internally, she’s, if not resisting, she’s certainly questioning and slowing down a lot of these policies. And then, externally, to the public, she’s having to defend them and really look like the face of them, and that ends up being something that she does actually over and over again in her job. michael barbaro And remind us what ends up happening to the family separation policy. caitlin dickerson So President Trump stopped the practice himself by signing an executive order. archived recording (donald trump) I consider it to be a very important executive order. It’s about keeping families together. caitlin dickerson But it didn’t matter, because a few days later, a federal judge intervened, deemed the practice unconstitutional, and he didn’t stop there. He said that — archived recording Families who have been separated as a result of the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy be reunited within 30 days. The order says kids under 5 must be back with their parents within 14 days from now. caitlin dickerson So sort of a resounding disavowal of this policy. michael barbaro caitlin dickerson Exactly. And so even though she’d pushed back against it, Secretary Nielsen ends up taking the blame. michael barbaro So what’s another example something that she expresses internal qualms about but then goes out and defends publicly? caitlin dickerson So one of the next policies to be introduced was an idea to limit asylum pretty significantly so that people could only apply if they showed up at a legal port of entry — whereas beforehand, people could and did very often show up anywhere along the border, present themselves to a border agency, ask for protection, and they were ushered into this legal process. The idea was to say, you can’t do that anymore. You have to show up at a specific office, which is, of course, a pretty tall order for somebody who’s coming from Central America with maybe a cell phone, maybe not, not a whole lot of resources. They don’t always know exactly where these offices exist. archived recording (kirstjen nielsen) You do not need to break the law of this country by entering illegally to claim asylum. If you are seeking asylum, go to a port of entry. caitlin dickerson But as Nielsen pointed out to the president, it was very hard to justify, because immigration law explicitly says that you can request asylum regardless of where you enter. michael barbaro So again, Nielsen is saying inside the White House, hey, this might not be legal. I have reservations about it. But it nevertheless gets implemented. And as you’ve said, she’s the decider. So she signs off on it. caitlin dickerson Exactly. And it’s important to point out that when Nielsen pushed back against President Trump, it wasn’t a reflection of her being a liberal on immigration or having a more sympathetic view toward asylum seekers. She just happened to be the face of an entire agency full of people who work in immigration enforcement but who still made clear to her that there were going to be legal and logistical roadblocks to putting these ideas into place. michael barbaro And what happens to that port of entry policy that would limit the number of locations that people can apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson Very quickly after, it’s blocked by federal courts, and it remains that way. archived recording A district court ruled that the ban conflicts with immigration law. caitlin dickerson So this was the executive branch trying to very clearly contradict laws that were approved by the legislative branch. archived recording And now the Supreme Court has refused to step in to unblock the ban. michael barbaro So her legal reservations are well-founded. In other words, her advice to the president is correct, even if it’s ignored. caitlin dickerson That’s right. Her analysis is sound, because each time she is pushed back, she’s been right. And these ideas have been blocked. michael barbaro Do any of these policies that we’re describing — family separation, limiting the locations at which people can seek asylum — do any of them succeed in curbing the flow of migrants, even for the very short period of time that they’re in place before they are legally challenged? caitlin dickerson They don’t. archived recording New numbers show a 400 percent — 4-0-0, that is — 400 percent increase over just last year. caitlin dickerson Last October, we saw a record number of families seek asylum in the United States. This is after family separation is introduced. And every month since then, the numbers have gotten even higher. archived recording C.B.P. officials say Border Patrol agents are on pace for apprehensions and encounters with more than 100,000 migrants in March. michael barbaro So not only are these policies being blocked in court, for the very short bit of time that they were ever in place, they’re not doing their job of limiting the flow of migrants. caitlin dickerson They’re not. The numbers keep going up. And some people would argue that maybe the policies weren’t left in place for long enough to show any concrete outcome, and we can’t know that for sure. But what we do know is that these policies that Nielsen was pushing back on, saying they’re not going to work, didn’t work. And the numbers have continued to rise. michael barbaro And so what does that do to the president’s relationship to Nielsen? She’s in a sense being vindicated, but the problem she’s there to solve is only getting worse. caitlin dickerson She’s simultaneously sort of being vindicated if you look at it from a legal standpoint, but from a relationship standpoint, she’s the face, in President Trump’s eyes, of these failures. archived recording 1 Kirstjen Nielsen appears to be on shaky ground. That’s according to a New York Times report. Nielsen told colleagues that she was close to resigning Wednesday after being berated by the president in front of the entire cabinet. archived recording 2 Nothing sets him off more than immigration, and I’m told that meeting on Wednesday in the cabinet room was very heated, was incredibly heated. She spoke back to him about it, tried to defend herself. caitlin dickerson So it’s in this context of the policies that are being introduced being blocked in the courts, the number of people crossing the border rising, and Trump’s relationship with Secretary Nielsen falling apart that he comes up with his most aggressive idea yet. archived recording Another day, another threat from President Trump, and today, he is threatening to shut down the southern border. caitlin dickerson Where he wants to completely seal the border, 100 percent. Not let anybody come into the U.S. archived recording (donald trump) And if they don’t stop them, we’re closing the border. We’ll close it, and we’ll keep it closed for a long time. I’m not playing games. michael barbaro And how exactly would that work? caitlin dickerson Well, we shouldn’t assume that the president had any particular policy in his mind when he tweeted that he wanted to seal the border. We can assume, though, that he wasn’t talking about, for example, cargo moving back and forth or people with actual visas and permission to come into the United States, but really that he’s talking about shutting down asylum and shutting down the ability of people who don’t previously have permission to come into the United States. And the policy that we know has come closest to achieving that goal, one that’s been kicking around in Washington for some months now, would be to get rid of asylum as we know it. It would no longer allow anyone to apply for asylum in the United States. And instead, people who needed that status or wanted that status would have to stay in their home country, similar to the way that Syrian refugees apply to come to the United States — apply from home, wait many months, go through lots of vetting and background checks, and then only if they’re approved, they would be allowed to come here. michael barbaro And I guess, what could be a more extreme version of limiting asylum than literally telling people, you cannot come to this country and apply for asylum? caitlin dickerson I don’t think there is a more extreme version, because I think this idea means eliminating asylum. It goes away. michael barbaro And as best we understand it, what was Secretary Nielsen’s response to this idea? caitlin dickerson From what we know, it’s been very similar to the way she reacted to family separation, to that idea to significantly limit asylum to the ports of entry, which is that this is going to be challenged by the courts immediately. It’s going to be a huge lift to get a policy like this introduced, to work out the logistics, and all of it will be for naught, because it’ll be enjoined by the courts. And it’s that oppositional and resistant stance that she’s in when she walks into the White House for her meeting with the president. It’s unclear who threw up their hands first or second, or whether they both did it, but what we know is that the president did not leave her with an option, that he, at least, decided this isn’t going to work. You’re out. And she was by the end of that night. And so what that means is the homeland security secretary who oversaw some of the most controversial and aggressive immigration policies this country has ever seen — even she wasn’t aggressive enough for President Trump. And so now she’s gone, and he’s looking for a replacement who will go even further. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So Caitlin, who is the president turning to to replace Nielsen as he looks for somebody to go further than she was willing to go? caitlin dickerson He’s turning to Kevin McAleenan, who’s currently the head of United States Customs and Border Protection. That’s the agency that oversees both the customs officers who you meet at the airport when you’ve gone on vacation abroad and then the Border Patrol. Those are the police, the boots on the ground along the border. And McAleenan is known as sort of a policy wonk, a really smart and reasonable guy who’s willing to work with Democrats, and somebody who served under President Obama as well. He’s got more than 10 years of experience at the agency. People know him as this reasonable guy. But when you dig a little bit deeper, McAleenan was inspired to get into homeland security work right after 9/11. And at C.B.P., especially most recently when he was overseeing this agency, it really became known as the sort of policy engine with him at the center of it coming up with ways to turn President Trump’s ideas into actual policies that could be carried out. If D.H.S. is this agency run out of Washington that’s overseeing all of this work, it was McAleenan’s staff members that were actually physically taking children away from their parents, that were physically turning asylum seekers away at the border or telling them to go elsewhere or to wait in line. So now he’s moving into this role where he’s got even more power, but I think we can expect that he’ll continue to do what he was doing before, which was take President Trump’s ideas that are sort of extreme and that aren’t necessarily encumbered by the immigration laws, norms, history, and he’ll try to translate them into something that’s practical and that can be introduced on the ground. michael barbaro So even though he might seem moderate at first glance, he’s actually someone who the president trusts to put these more restrictive, maybe even extreme policies into practice. And he’s been involved in doing that already. Now he’s being elevated to do it at an even higher level. caitlin dickerson Exactly. michael barbaro And I guess that all makes sense. If Nielsen is seen as too reluctant to put these policies into practice, then the president would turn to somebody who is willing to do that. caitlin dickerson That’s right, who is willing to try. But remember that McAleenan is going to run up against the exact same legal framework and logistical challenges that anybody else in that role is going to. michael barbaro Right. So if these policies are going to run into legal trouble in the courts, regardless of who is leading the agency, what does it matter, in the end, if the leader of the Department of Homeland Security is gung-ho about the President’s policies or is reluctantly saying yes, as Nielsen was? caitlin dickerson I think you can look at that question a couple of different ways. On one hand, you’re right that it’s not going to make a huge difference who’s sitting in the office at the head of the Homeland Security Department, because no matter what they introduce, if it violates the immigration law, they’re going to wind up in court. But another way of looking at it is family separation only existed as an official sort of policy for what, 45 days under zero tolerance? Not a very long period of time before it had to end. But still, I don’t think that very many people are going to argue that family separation was a small thing or something that didn’t affect very many people. I mean, I think it had a huge impact. So I do think that if you have a hawk running the Homeland Security Department, even when they’re sort of encumbered by the existing legal framework, they can make some pretty big changes, even if, ultimately, those changes wind up in court. I think that Kevin McAleenan has two things going for him in President Trump’s eyes. The first, like we said, is that he knows the policies and he knows the situation on the ground like the back of his hand. And the second thing is that he’s shown a willingness to follow President Trump’s lead, and so he may be the person who’s best positioned to come up with the most legal ways to achieve President Trump’s goals. And even if the policies that he comes up with don’t remain in place in the long term, they might at least exist long enough to give President Trump something to point to and show his supporters when they ask, where are you on these campaign promises? Where are you on this idea of, if not sealing the border, significantly decreasing the number of immigrants coming to the United States? michael barbaro So even if these policies are ultimately blocked by the courts, it feels like it’s important to this president to have someone at the Department of Homeland Security who is willing to try them, and that may be enough. caitlin dickerson I think in President Trump’s heart of hearts, right, he would hope that he would find not only somebody who is willing to try but somebody who is going to succeed. He wants aggressive policies to be instituted in the long term. But I think it’s better in his mind than nothing to have somebody who’s willing to try. And as we know, politically, it’s better than nothing, because then the president can point to these policies that he tried to introduce, if only it wasn’t for the courts who had blocked him, or if only it wasn’t for Congress who blocked him. michael barbaro Right. My intention was there. Somebody else is at fault for it not working. caitlin dickerson Exactly. He has at least an attempt to meet these campaign promises to point to when voters ask, why haven’t you made a significant change? So I think that having a more aggressive leader in place who’s more willing to introduce these policies, when they get stuck in the courts, it allows Trump to blame the courts rather than his own administration for getting in his way. He can say, look, I tried, but these judges are blocking me, whereas it wasn’t just the judges blocking him with Secretary Nielsen. It was her, too. michael barbaro If Congress is not going to change the law, and I think the assumption is that they are not going to do that anytime soon when it comes to basic immigration law, is the president right to suggest that the current system is broken, and the only way to fix it is to test these new ideas, even if they push the boundaries of the law? caitlin dickerson I would say yes to the first part of your question. Most people agree that the system is broken. But when it comes to fixing the problem, what are you trying to fix? In the president’s mind, the problem is the vast number of people coming here to seek asylum. His idea of a fix would decrease that number. But other people see the problem as not that people are coming here to seek asylum at all but the ways that we’re dealing with them. We don’t have space to place people physically in custody when they enter. We don’t have judges to hear their cases for years and years. So if you see that as the problem, then — michael barbaro He’s not really addressing those. caitlin dickerson He’s not addressing those problems, and I think that’s because a lot of people who agree with the president are concerned that if we come up with better systems for processing asylum seekers — we make it more organized and efficient and, in some cases, comfortable — that all that will do is encourage more and more people to come. And again, if the numbers themselves are what you see as the problem, then making the system better only makes it worse. michael barbaro Caitlin, what does all of this tell us about where President Trump plans to go on immigration? caitlin dickerson I think it shows that President Trump is going to continue full steam ahead to achieve his immigration goals and that if there are people, even informed career officials, who want to stand in the way of that, they’re going to be pushed out, because he’s very committed to the goal of limiting the number of people who come to the border, regardless of the many legal challenges he’s already faced, those that are sure to come, the public reaction, all these other things notwithstanding. We’re not seeing any signs of slowing down. I think this week is actually an indicator of a ramping up of these goals. michael barbaro In other words, the gloves are coming off, even though, in a lot of people’s minds, they thought the gloves were already off. caitlin dickerson That’s right. It’s like another set of gloves are coming off. michael barbaro Caitlin, thank you very much. caitlin dickerson Thank you. michael barbaro On Monday, The Times reported that President Trump plans to push out more officials from the Department of Homeland Security, including the department’s general counsel and the director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as he seeks to carry out his harder-line approach to immigration. A few hours later, in the latest legal setback to that approach, a federal judge blocked a Trump administration policy that required those seeking asylum to wait in Mexico rather than in the U.S. while their cases made their way through U.S. immigration court. The judge found that the policy violated federal law. Here’s what else you need to know today. archived recording (mike pompeo) Today, the United States is continuing to build its maximum pressure campaign against the Iranian regime. I am announcing our intent to designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, including its Quds Force, as a foreign terrorist organization in accordance with Section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. michael barbaro On Monday, the Trump administration said that it was designating a powerful arm of the Iranian military as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time that the U.S. has classified part of any country’s government as such a threat. archived recording (mike pompeo) We’re doing it because the Iranian regime’s use of terrorism as a tool of statecraft makes it fundamentally different from any other government. michael barbaro The move was debated at the highest levels of the administration, with top officials at the Defense Department and the C.I.A. opposing the designation, arguing it could justify Iranian attacks against the U.S. and its allies. But the president’s national security adviser, John Bolton, and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, advocated for the decision, arguing the designation would further isolate Iran by discouraging businesses from working with its military. archived recording (mike pompeo) This historic step will deprive the world’s leading state sponsor of terror the financial means to spread misery and death around the world. michael barbaro In response, Iran’s government said it was designating the U.S. Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, as a terrorist organization as well. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. The move comes just two days after Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly expressed anger at a rise in migrants at the southwestern border, withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement because he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction. Mr. Trump has ratcheted up his anti-immigration message in recent months as he seeks to galvanize supporters before the 2020 election, shutting down the government and then declaring a national emergency to secure funding to build a border wall, cutting aid to Central American countries and repeatedly denouncing what he believes is a crisis of migrants trying to enter the country. He took aim again Sunday night after announcing Ms. Nielsen’s departure, tweeting, “Our Country is FULL!” Ms. Nielsen said she planned “to stay on as secretary through Wednesday” in order “to assist with an orderly transition.” The abruptness was unusual because the Department of Homeland Security currently does not have a deputy secretary, who would normally take the reins. The president said in a tweet that Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, would take over as the acting replacement for Ms. Nielsen, who became the sixth secretary to lead the agency in late 2017. But by law, the under secretary for management, Claire Grady, who is currently serving as acting deputy secretary, is next in line to be acting secretary. The White House will have to fire her to make Mr. McAleenan acting secretary, people familiar with the transition said. Ms. Grady has told colleagues that she has no intention of resigning to make way for Mr. McAleenan. [Read about Kevin McAleenan, the new acting homeland security secretary.] Among the possible replacements for Ms. Nielsen in the long term is Ken Cuccinelli, the former Virginia attorney general who is a favorite among conservative activists and who fits the profile that Mr. Trump wants the next homeland secretary to have, people familiar with the discussions said. Ms. Nielsen had been pressured by Mr. Trump to be more aggressive in stemming the influx of migrant crossings at the border, people familiar with their discussions in recent months said. Her entire time in the job was spent batting back suspicion from the president, even as he told people he liked how she performed on television and enjoyed dealing with her personally. He initially was skeptical because of Ms. Nielsen’s previous service in the George W. Bush administration, and then because she was close to John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff. In her letter resigning as secretary of homeland security, Kirstjen Nielsen wrote: “We have taken unprecedented action to protect Americans. We have implemented historic efforts to defend our borders, combat illegal immigration, obstruct the inflow of drugs, and uphold our laws and values.” The president called Ms. Nielsen at home early in the mornings to demand that she take action to stop migrants from entering the country, including doing things that were clearly illegal, such as blocking all migrants from seeking asylum. She repeatedly noted the limitations imposed on her department by federal laws, court settlements and international obligations. Those responses only infuriated Mr. Trump further. The president’s fury erupted in the spring of 2018 as Ms. Nielsen hesitated for weeks about whether to sign a memo ordering the routine separation of migrant children from their families so that the parents could be detained. In a cabinet meeting surrounded by her peers, Mr. Trump castigated her repeatedly, leading her to draft a resignation letter and to tell colleagues that there was no reason for her to lead the department any longer. By the end of the week, she had reconsidered and remained in her position, becoming an increasingly fierce supporter of his policies, including the family separations. Mr. Trump and Stephen Miller, the president’s top immigration adviser, have privately but regularly complained about Ms. Nielsen. Lou Dobbs, a Fox News host who is one of the president’s favorite sounding boards, has also encouraged Mr. Trump’s negative views of her handling of the migrant crisis. Ms. Nielsen lost a powerful protector when Mr. Kelly, her mentor, left his job as White House chief of staff at the beginning of the year. Mr. Kelly was the Trump administration’s first homeland security secretary and lobbied for Ms. Nielsen to replace him. Multiple White House officials said she had grown deeply paranoid in recent months, after numerous stories about her job being on the line. She also had supported the Immigration and Customs Enforcement nominee Mr. Trump withdrew, Ronald D. Vitiello, and her support for him was described as problematic for her with the president. Mr. Trump felt Mr. Vitiello did not favor closing the border, as the president threatened again to do in a tweet on Sunday night. Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. In early 2019, as the number of migrant families from Central American countries surged, the president’s fury at Ms. Nielsen did, too. He repeatedly demanded that she cut off foreign aid to Central American countries even though the funding was the responsibility of the State Department. She repeatedly deflected his demands. One day after Ms. Nielsen traveled to Honduras to sign a regional compact with officials from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, Mr. Trump cut State Department funding for the countries. And in recent days, the president made public moves to undercut her authority, leaking news that he might nominate an “immigration czar” to assume oversight of the issue at the heart of Ms. Nielsen’s department. Still, Ms. Nielsen embraced the president’s “crisis” language as apprehensions of migrants at the border shot up to thousands per day. On Friday, Mr. Trump traveled with Ms. Nielsen and Mr. McAleenan to Calexico, Calif., to highlight the issue. While the number of border crossings is not as high as in the early 2000s, the demographic of migrants has shifted largely from individual Mexicans looking for jobs — who could easily be deported — to Central American families, overwhelming detention facilities and prompting mass releases of migrants into cities along the border. Ms. Nielsen estimated last month that border officials had stopped as many as 100,000 migrants in March. But despite the trip and several stories about how much better her relationship with Mr. Trump was, Ms. Nielsen never learned how to manage him, people familiar with their discussions said. He often felt lectured to by Ms. Nielsen, the people familiar with the discussions said. And his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was not an admirer of Ms. Nielsen, several administration officials said. That came to a head recently as Mr. Kushner had inserted himself into immigration discussions. While Mr. Trump often blamed Ms. Nielsen for the surge in migrant crossings, she will be remembered for leading the department during the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the southwestern border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families. An intense backlash ensued, and the Department of Homeland Security was unprepared to deal with separating nearly 3,000 children from their parents. “Hampered by misstep after misstep, Kirstjen Nielsen’s tenure at the Department of Homeland Security was a disaster from the start,” said Representative Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat and the chairman of the House’s committee on Homeland Security. “It is clearer now than ever that the Trump administration’s border security and immigration policies — that she enacted and helped craft — have been an abysmal failure and have helped create the humanitarian crisis at the border.” Mr. Trump eventually moved to halt the family separations, though the government struggled in some cases to reunite those it had already separated. Married to a Salvadoran immigrant, Mr. McAleenan is a lawyer who wrote an honors thesis at Amherst College on marriage equality and applied at the F.B.I. after the Sept. 11 attacks. Described by colleagues as a savvy political operator, Mr. McAleenan worked cooperatively with Obama administration officials but later embraced Mr. Trump’s agenda, which included unshackling Border Patrol agents from restrictions that the previous administration had imposed. Mr. McAleenan was also one of three Department of Homeland Security officials who had urged Ms. Nielsen to sign the memo authorizing the routine separation of migrant families at the border. The department, which has a budget of more than $40 billion and more than 240,000 employees, is an amalgam of 22 government agencies that was created after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. It is responsible for everything from protecting the nation from cyberattacks to responding to natural disasters. At 46, Ms. Nielsen was the youngest person to lead the sprawling department, and an unlikely choice for the job. In the months immediately after the Sept. 11 attacks, she helped set up the Transportation Security Administration, now an agency within the department. She also worked as a special assistant to President George W. Bush on natural disaster response while serving on the White House Homeland Security Council. When Mr. Trump moved Mr. Kelly to the White House in July 2017, Ms. Nielsen moved with him. As the principal deputy chief of staff, she enforced Mr. Kelly’s attempts to regulate access to Mr. Trump in the Oval Office, including the president’s schedule — irritating White House staff members, who complained she was uncompromising. Mr. Kelly later backed Ms. Nielsen to succeed him at the Homeland Security Department, though she was criticized as too inexperienced for the job by Democrats and anti-immigration groups. Mr. Trump, however, said she was “ready on Day 1.” “There will be no on-the-job training for Kirstjen,” Mr. Trump said in October 2017, announcing her nomination for the post. But by the following spring, Ms. Nielsen was telling associates she was miserable in the job. Maggie Haberman reported from New York, and Michael D. Shear from San Diego. Annie Karni and Noah Weiland contributed reporting from Washington. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial Board  ", "id": "5caa74ac49f0eacbf1f8179d", "date": "2019-04-07T22:06:10+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security, Israel, N.C.A.A. Basketball: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We’re covering a purge at the Department of Homeland Security, today’s parliamentary elections in Israel, and the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship. Mr. Trump moved on Monday to clear out the top ranks of the Department of Homeland Security, a day after the resignation of its secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen. The White House announced the departure of the director of the Secret Service, Randolph Alles, and more high-ranking officials are expected to leave soon. The moves reflected the president’s frustration about immigration and security, and appeared to be a housecleaning of officials associated with John Kelly, the former White House chief of staff who was also Mr. Trump’s first Homeland Security secretary. What’s next: Mr. Trump’s push for tougher immigration policies includes the possible return of a measure that separated migrant families, current and former officials said.  The Daily: In today’s episode, a reporter who covers immigration for The Times discusses Ms. Nielsen’s tenure. Another angle: In clamping down on migrants, Mr. Trump has said “Our country is full.” Demographers and economists disagree.  The country heads into parliamentary elections today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a veteran politician of the Israeli right, facing stiff competition from a centrist rival, Benny Gantz, a former army general. Here’s a look at the voting process and what’s at stake. Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign. We’ll have live coverage as the polls close at 3 p.m. Eastern. News analysis: Mr. Netanyahu has promised to begin annexing parts of the West Bank, which would flout four decades of U.S. policy. He was emboldened by President Trump’s support, our White House correspondent writes. Yesterday: In another move that could help Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Trump designated a powerful arm of Iran’s military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization. It was the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of another country’s government. Mr. Netanyahu and Trump administration officials have said Iran is the greatest threat facing Israel. Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the departure of the country’s authoritarian ruler. Algeria’s longtime leader was forced out. And in Libya, an aging general is promising to end the chaos that followed the ouster of the dictator Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in 2011. The uprisings across the Arab world eight years ago are still reverberating across North Africa, but the renewed unrest shows that the problems that led to the earlier uprisings remain. Those include growing populations of disaffected young people, closed and corrupt economies, and authoritarian governments unresponsive to the public. What’s next: President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt is to meet President Trump at the White House today. Mr. el-Sisi, 64, is seeking at least a tacit blessing before a referendum to change the Egyptian constitution so that he can stay in power until 2034 — in effect, as president for life. Kelly Catlin, 23, won a silver medal in cycling at the 2016 Olympics and had a shot at gold at the 2020 Games. She was also a graduate student in computational mathematics at Stanford, setting up opportunities off the track.  That seemingly solid path made her downward spiral all the more mystifying to loved ones. She was found dead in her apartment last month. Quotable: Her father, Dr. Mark Catlin, blames several factors for her suicide, including a concussion in January. “I wake up every two to three hours at night to go through all of these permutations on what could have saved her,” he said. “I can’t help but wonder what she would’ve done with her life.” The Boeing 737 Max jet that crashed twice in five months relied on decades-old systems and left pilots without some common safety features. “It was state of the art at the time, but that was 50 years ago,” said a former engineer who helped design the Max’s cockpit. “It’s not a good airplane for the current environment.” Attorney general in Congress: William Barr is scheduled to testify today and Wednesday to discuss the Justice Department budget. Some lawmakers are expected to question him over his handling of the special counsel’s report. Saudis barred: Sixteen Saudis, including a top aide to Prince Mohammed bin Salman, will be denied entry to the U.S., Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced Monday. The Trump administration has been criticized for playing down C.I.A. findings that show Prince Mohammed played a role in the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi. Mar-a-Lago arrest: The Chinese woman who was arrested at President Trump’s Florida resort had a device to detect hidden cameras and $8,000 in a hotel room, a federal prosecutor has said. College admissions scandal: Fourteen people, including the actress Felicity Huffman, will plead guilty, prosecutors have said. Fifty people were charged in the case, which involved faked test scores, phony athletic credentials and big payments. The 2020 election: And then there were 18. Representative Eric Swalwell of California has joined the crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. Keep track here. Storm threat in Midwest: An unusually powerful storm this week comes after one last month that resulted in widespread flooding in the region. Convictions in Hong Kong protests: Nine pro-democracy activists face prison terms of up to seven years after being convicted today for their roles in widespread protests in the city in 2014. Snapshot: Above, Virginia won its first N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship on Monday, defeating Texas Tech, 85-77, in overtime. The game was the first in 40 years between men’s teams that had previously never played for the title. Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel was among the hosts who bid farewell to the departing Homeland Security secretary: “Goodbye Kirstjen. Whoever replaces you permanently is going to have some very big cages to fill.” What we’re reading: This article in Popula. Anna Holland, an editor based in London, recommends it, saying: “This is one of the best pieces on climate change I’ve read in a very long time. It asks tough questions of everyone — not just those on the hunt for a luxury apartment in Miami Beach.” Cook: Spicy sausage and butternut squash are a perfect match. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Watch: “Fosse/Verdon,” FX’s biopic mini-series, premieres tonight and assumes a thorough knowledge of Broadway. Here’s a cheat sheet. Go: “Oasis” is a charming, cheering piece of site-specific theater in Lower Manhattan. It’s a Critic’s Pick. Listen: “Old Town Road,” the hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what might be country music, is the focus of our pop podcast. Smarter Living: Organize your kitchen like a professional chef to keep ingredients and tools handy. Separate cookware by function: prep, cook, serve, store. Date spices and keep them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace many gadgets. We also have tips for securely mounting your flat-screen TV. Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt. Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs. She named the skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper. Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since. Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even arrest — in parts of the Middle East. That’s it for this briefing. See you next time. — Chris Thank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Elizabeth Paton, our Europe-based Styles reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Kirstjen Nielsen, the former Homeland Security secretary.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something built in a gym (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s recent article about leggings drew more than 1,800 comments from readers. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5cac630449f0eacbf1f81c99", "date": "2019-04-09T09:15:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security Chief Cites Top Threat to U.S. (It’s Not the Border)", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority — not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency. “On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word ‘cyber’ is circled, highlighted and underlined,” Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her department’s focus in the coming year. “The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.” Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an “invasion.” The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administration’s campaign to close the border to illegal immigration. Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a “humanitarian and security catastrophe” of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February. But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials. Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed “cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals” as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause. Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin “for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means.” And she said the average American citizen or company was “no match” for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran. “I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights,” Ms. Nielsen said. “I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.” John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web — something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech. Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats. “There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S.,” said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. “My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.” Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month. She praised the department’s work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her department’s ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure. “What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done,” Ms. Nielsen said, “but what they have the capability to do.”    ", "id": "5c90139449f0eacbf105dbbc", "date": "2019-03-18T21:52:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security's Acting Deputy Secretary Offered Resignation to Trump: Nielsen", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said on Tuesday that Claire Grady, the acting deputy secretary of the department, had offered her resignation to President Donald Trump, potentially further destabilizing the agency tasked with managing immigration and the country's borders. The departure of Grady, who was legally supposed to take over from Nielsen after Nielsen's own ouster earlier this week, was expected after Trump picked U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan to become the acting head of the Homeland Security Department. Nielsen's resignation at the department is effective on Wednesday.  (Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by David Alexander)", "id": "5cadc16e49f0eacbf1f82470", "date": "2019-04-10T10:10:29+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security's Acting Deputy Secretary Offered Resignation to Trump: Nielsen", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said on Tuesday that Claire Grady, the acting deputy secretary of the department, had offered her resignation to President Donald Trump, potentially further destabilizing the agency tasked with managing immigration and the country's borders. The departure of Grady, who was legally supposed to take over from Nielsen after Nielsen's own ouster earlier this week, was expected after Trump picked U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan to become the acting head of the Homeland Security Department. Nielsen's resignation at the department is effective on Wednesday.  (Reporting by Makini Brice; Editing by David Alexander)", "id": "5cad6c5349f0eacbf1f8231d", "date": "2019-04-10T04:07:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "U.S. Airport-Security Head Named as No. 2 Homeland Security Official", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The new chief of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) named the United States' top airport-security official, David Pekoske, his acting deputy on Thursday, as President Donald Trump overhauls the leadership of the domestic-security agency. The move, by Acting DHS Secretary Kevin McAleenan, who took office on Wednesday, temporarily fills a leadership vacuum at the top of DHS, which is responsible for everything from border protection to disaster response. But it also places further strains on an agency of 240,000 employees, many of whose top leadership posts were unfilled even before Trump's management shakeup. McAleenan remains in charge of U.S. Customs and Border Protection even as he assumes responsibility for all of DHS. Likewise, Pekoske will continue to head the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, which screens airline travelers, while he serves as the No. 2 official at DHS. Both men are serving on a temporary basis.  In recent weeks, Trump has interviewed several candidates for DHS secretary, an appointee who must be confirmed by the Republican-controlled U.S. Senate.  Trump has forced out top DHS officials over the past week as the agency tries to stem rising numbers of immigrants arriving at its southern border, many of them families fleeing violence and poverty in Central America. DHS said it arrested or denied entry to more than 103,000 people along the border last month, more than double the figure for March 2018. Trump has grown increasingly frustrated as DHS officials have told him that dramatic immigration changes he wants are not possible under current law, several sources say. DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen announced her departure on Sunday after clashing with Trump over border security. Her deputy, Claire Grady, stepped down on Tuesday. Trump is trying to force out L. Francis Cissna, who oversees legal immigration programs as director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, as well as John Mitnick, the top DHS lawyer, according to a source familiar with White House deliberations.  Leadership is also in flux at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the U.S. Secret Service and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Ten other top positions are either vacant or filled on a temporary basis.  (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)", "id": "5caf6e7e49f0eacbf1f82dbc", "date": "2019-04-11T16:41:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen Leaving Position: Trump", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, President Donald Trump said on Twitter on Sunday. The president said Kevin McAleenan, the current U.S. Customs and Border Protection commissioner, would become the acting DHS secretary.  (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Peter Cooney)", "id": "5caa76f949f0eacbf1f817a3", "date": "2019-04-07T22:15:59+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Census Bureau Will Ask for Federal Files on Noncitizens", "full_text": " The Census Bureau will tap Department of Homeland Security files on millions of immigrants, including noncitizens, as part of its data collection for the 2020 census, bureau officials said Thursday. The move comes as the Trump administration faces court challenges to its efforts to add a citizenship question to the next head count. The Homeland Security files would include information on immigrants’ citizenship status, addresses and birth dates, and Social Security numbers. Experts and analysts outside the agency said the request for data on noncitizens, first reported by The Associated Press, had a number of plausible explanations — and did not necessarily mean the administration was trying to sidestep recent judicial rulings barring the citizenship question. In fact the rulings have criticized the Commerce Department, which oversees the Census Bureau, for disregarding a federal law requiring officials to determine whether it can obtain information on noncitizens from federal files — before it burdens citizens with an additional question on census forms. During internal deliberations over adding a citizenship question to the 2020 head count, Census Bureau analysts told Commerce Secretary Wilbur L. Ross Jr. that the question was unnecessary because existing federal files — including those in Homeland Security — could provide the same information more accurately and cheaply. The Census Bureau said in a statement that it had not gathered data on noncitizens in recent censuses, but added that the new agreement with Homeland Security was neither unusual nor cause for concern. The agency said that it routinely supplemented its economic and population surveys with personal files from other federal agencies like the Social Security Administration and the Internal Revenue Service, and that is required to strip all identifiable personal information from data it gathers before sharing statistics with the public or the rest of the government. Failure to do so is a federal crime. The administration’s attempt to add the citizenship question had another setback on Wednesday when a second federal judge barred the addition of the question, ruling that the administration ignored both federal law and the Constitution in its zeal to obtain information on noncitizens. A final decision on whether the census can include the citizenship question now rests with the Supreme Court, which has set arguments on the issue for April. Most analysts already believe that concerns about the proposed citizenship question will depress the response to the 2020 census among foreign-born residents. That, in turn, could skew the distribution of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal funds that are allotted based on population figures, as well as the reapportionment of congressional and state political districts in 2021. On Thursday, critics said the agreement with Homeland Security would heighten fears among noncitizens and even legal immigrants that the administration was trying to sidestep such rulings and build a database of foreigners that could be used for prosecutions and deportations. But they acknowledged that those fears are overblown. Federal law prohibits the Census Bureau from cooperating on such a venture, and the bureau’s own rigid tradition of nonpartisan service would likely incite a revolt were it ordered to. The Census Bureau “is clearly in an uncomfortable situation,” said Andrew Reamer, a George Washington University research professor who closely follows Census Bureau data collection. “But in my experience, it would never initiate on its own a data request to get around a court order.” At the same time, he and other experts said, the fears were predictable, given that the Commerce Department has yet to offer a credible explanation as to why it wants to collect census data on noncitizens. Federal courts in California and New York have both ruled that the official reason — that the Justice Department needs better data to enforce voting-rights laws — is a pretext for some other undisclosed objective. “It’s understandable that it’s alarming,” said Terri Ann Lowenthal, a consultant on census issues who has advised groups that oppose the citizenship question. “Given the anti-immigration policies of the administration, people who are fearful for their security and their status would see this as another possible effort to harm them.”", "id": "5c81bd2a49f0eacbf105bf5b", "date": "2019-03-08T00:52:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen Resigns Amid Trump Anger Over Border", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, who oversaw President Donald Trump's bitterly contested immigration policies during her tumultuous 16-month tenure, resigned on Sunday amid a surge in the number of migrants at the border with Mexico. A senior administration official said Trump asked for Nielsen's resignation and she gave it.  Trump, who has recently expressed growing anger about the situation at the border, said on Twitter: \"Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position, and I would like to thank her for her service.\" In another tweet, Trump said Kevin McAleenan, the current U.S. Customs and Border Protection commissioner, would become acting DHS secretary. In a tweet late Sunday, Nielsen said that she would stay on until Wednesday. \"I have agreed to stay on as Secretary through Wednesday, April 10th to assist with an orderly transition and ensure that key DHS missions are not impacted,\" she said. Nielsen's departure was first reported by CBS News.  Nielsen, 46, had been DHS secretary since December 2017. Her departure had been repeatedly rumored over the past year, particularly after a wave of anger over the administration's 2018 family separation policy at the border with Mexico and most recently as U.S. border officials estimated that 100,000 migrants were apprehended at the southern border in March, the highest level in a decade. Another senior administration official said Trump's national security adviser, John Bolton, after a blowup with Nielsen late last year, also recommended to Trump that she should go. Trump has made a clampdown on illegal immigration a centerpiece of his two-year-old presidency, leading chants of \"Build that wall\" at his rallies as he has sought to cut back on the number of newcomers entering the United States without proper documentation. Many of the migrants picked up last month were Central Americans seeking U.S. asylum. Trump was so frustrated about the increase that he announced he would cut off U.S. aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador. He also threatened to close the border with Mexico, although he later backed off that proposal with a threat to impose tariffs on auto imports. In her resignation letter, Nielsen asked for more from Congress and the courts, which have opposed such Trump administration initiatives as his effort to limit immigration from Muslim nations and the border wall. \"I hope that the next Secretary will have the support of Congress and the courts in fixing the laws which have impeded our ability to fully secure America's borders and which have contributed to discord in our nation's discourse,\" she wrote to Trump. Trump also took aim at Congress in another tweet later on Sunday, saying: \"Country is FULL,\" and saying Democrats in Congress must \"fix loopholes\" and repeating his threats to close the border or impose tariffs if Mexico does not do more.  Nielsen's resignation was the latest high-profile departure from the Trump administration, and leaves just four women in his Cabinet. Among others, Trump currently lacks a permanent secretary of defense or chief of staff. LIGHTNING ROD Nielsen's departure was announced two days after the Republican president abruptly said on Friday he was dumping his nominee to be the top official at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Ronald Vitiello, saying he wanted someone \"tougher.\" ICE is under the jurisdiction of DHS, which was formed following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington. Repeatedly subjected to tough questioning by Democrats at congressional hearings, Nielsen became a lightning rod for criticism of Trump's policies. She was confronted by protesters last year at a Mexican restaurant in Washington. Last year, Nielsen came under increasing pressure by critics to step aside after the Trump administration adopted the policy of separating migrant children from their parents as part of its \"zero tolerance\" approach intended to deter families from leaving home in the hope of entering the United States. After criticism as pictures of children in cages were spread across the world, Trump signed an executive order in June ending family separations and requiring that families be held together in federal custody while the adults awaited prosecution for illegally crossing the border. But the government reported that at least 245 children were taken from their families between that time and the first months of 2019. Trump insists that the arrival of immigrants across the southern U.S. border constitutes a national emergency so important that he sidestepped Congress' refusal to provide him with billions of dollars he requested to build the border wall. Representative Bennie Thompson, the Democratic chairman of the House of Representatives Homeland Security Committee, said Nielsen's tenure at DHS \"was a disaster from the start.\" He said in a statement, however, that she should not serve as a scapegoat, blasting Trump for \"terrible and cruel policies.\" Noting that the department now has neither a permanent secretary nor deputy secretary, Thompson called on the administration to work with Congress \"in good faith.\" Before she was nominated as secretary, Nielsen worked as a deputy to former Marine General John Kelly, who headed DHS before becoming White House chief of staff.  Kelly resigned as chief of staff on Jan. 2 amid reports of a strained relationship with Trump.  (Reporting by Diane Bartz and Patricia Zengerle; Additional reporting by Jeff Mason and Sarah N. Lynch and Rich McKay; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Peter Cooney)", "id": "5caa6ff349f0eacbf1f81793", "date": "2019-04-07T21:46:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security Chief Spars With Democrats Over Splitting Migrant Families", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration. In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings. She also said the Trump administration’s family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents — even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases. “It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents,” Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee. [Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trump’s homeland security secretary.] Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administration’s enforcement. “That’s a policy,” Ms. Rice said. “You should admit it.” Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But “that wasn’t the point” of the immigration policy, she said. “The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law,” she added. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] The hearing was Ms. Nielsen’s first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trump’s request to declare a national emergency at the border — which would give him access to funding to build a border wall — and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago. Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said. “This is not a manufactured crisis,” Ms. Nielsen said. “This is truly an emergency.” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the president’s emergency declaration. “If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency,” Ms. Sanders said. Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border. Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry. Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that “we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively” — a view he admitted was cynical. The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administration’s immigration policies, the agency’s acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday. Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the department’s systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border. Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so. “To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option,” Ms. Nielsen said. In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared — a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore. Officials have said migrants — and the smugglers who exploit them — know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child. Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released. The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsen’s department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers. Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year. “You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary?” said Representative Nanette Barragán, Democrat of California. “You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.” Ms. Nielsen did not respond. The practice, part of a “zero tolerance” immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the president’s crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart. During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy. Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committee’s chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesday’s hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a “last resort.” “The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administration’s misinformation campaign,” Mr. Thompson said, “or she can correct the record.” For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trump’s ire over illegal immigration and border security. Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper. And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the president’s anti-immigrant language. “We face a crisis — a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders,” Ms. Nielsen said.", "id": "5c7fbd4749f0eacbf105b9ab", "date": "2019-03-06T12:28:29+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Seen Leaning Hard on New Homeland Security Chief Over Border", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's new acting chief of Homeland Security will be under pressure to implement legally dubious solutions to an influx of migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border - policies that his predecessor either could not, or would not, deliver.  Kevin McAleenan, presently commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), will be the fourth person to helm the agency under Trump. He takes over as U.S. border officials estimated that 100,000 migrants were apprehended at the southern border in March, the highest level in a decade. The president, who made immigration a key campaign theme, has grown increasingly frustrated with his officials, even as they have implemented aggressive policies to limit immigration. Immigration experts say Trump lately has called for policies that would violate U.S. laws, international agreements and court settlements or require U.S. Congress to pass major legislation. On Friday, he called for Congress to \"get rid of the whole asylum system\" and get rid of immigration judges, and criticized a long-standing federal court decree mandating certain standards of care for migrant children. A congressional official familiar with the matter said some in Congress believe Trump forced out Kirstjen Nielsen, who resigned as secretary on Sunday, in part because she was trying to obey laws on treatment of refugees, granting of amnesty and separation of families. A source close to Nielsen said Trump was convinced to oust her by his senior aide Stephen Miller, an immigration hardliner. Nielsen did not respond to a request for comment. It was not immediately clear what strategies McAleenan could implement to achieve Trump's objective of limiting migrant crossings at the southern border, especially as they are expected to reach their yearly peak in the coming months, experts said. A U.S. judge on Monday halted the administration's policy of sending some asylum seekers back across the border to wait out their cases in Mexico, a policy it said last week it planned to expand. The White House did not respond to a request for comment. \"So much of what the president put out there isn't really legally feasible,\" said Sarah Pierce, an immigration policy analyst at the Migration Policy Institute, a non-partisan think tank in Washington. \"I, like many, and maybe Nielsen herself are kind of puzzled as to what could happen.\" A CBP spokesman declined to comment and directed questions to the White House. McAleenan follows Nielsen and Elaine Duke, who led the DHS on an acting basis after John Kelly, Trump's first DHS secretary, became White House chief of staff in 2017. Trump took office in January that year. 'ZERO TOLERANCE' Nielsen oversaw a \"zero tolerance\" prosecution policy that led to the separation of thousands of parents and children, and launched a policy to return asylum seekers to Mexico until their claims are heard. Both policies garnered legal challenges, and both required extensive implementation by McAleenan and his agency. Stephen Legomsky, a former chief counsel at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services under Democratic President Barack Obama, said McAleenan likely will not have much freedom to pursue policies opposed by Trump or Miller. \"Whoever is put in that position in this administration is going to have a very hard time resisting the philosophy of the White House,\" Legomsky said. John Sandweg, former acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) during the Obama administration, said the Trump administration's focus on deterring migrants at the expense of other policies had hamstrung Nielsen and would likely hobble McAleenan. \"There's nothing we can do that's worse than what people are facing in Central America,\" he said. \"If we're going to work our way through this problem, being tough is not a strategy, it's a soundbite.\"  NOT RADIOACTIVE White House officials said Trump wanted someone at DHS who would focus on the border as the top priority. McAleenan is seen as having a good relationship with Trump and 20 years of experience, so the president felt he would be a good choice to handle the influx at the border, officials said. The White House envisions McAleenan working more with Congress, one official said, though the official declined to be specific about policy details.  McAleenan is a rare Trump appointee with cordial relations with Democrats in Congress. After testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee in December, McAleenan chatted afterwards for close to 15 minutes with Senator Dianne Feinstein and other Democrats on the committee. \"He's not considered to be radioactive,\" said a congressional Democratic aide on condition of anonymity. Democratic Representative Joaquin Castro demanded McAleenan resign in December, after a Guatemalan migrant girl died in federal custody and McAleenan failed to report it to Congress within 24 hours, as required. On Sunday, he said McAleenan's appointment as acting secretary was \"deeply disturbing.\" Trump further reshuffled the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on Monday by replacing the director of the Secret Service - which does not have immigration responsibilities - with a career agent.  (Additional reporting by Mark Hosenball and Andy Sullivan in Washington; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Susan Thomas and Sonya Hepinstall)", "id": "5caba83749f0eacbf1f81aac", "date": "2019-04-08T19:58:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Purge Set to Force Out More Top Homeland Security Officials", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump moved to clear out the senior ranks of the Department of Homeland Security on Monday, a day after  forcing the resignation of its secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, as he accelerated a purge of the nation’s immigration and security leadership. The White House announced the departure of Randolph D. Alles, the director of the Secret Service, who had fallen out of favor with the president even before a security breach at his Mar-a-Lago club that the agency effectively blamed on Mr. Trump’s employees. Government officials, who asked not to be identified discussing personnel changes before they were announced, said at least two to four more high-ranking figures affiliated with Ms. Nielsen were expected to leave soon, too, hollowing out the top echelon of the department managing border security, presidential safety, counterterrorism, natural disasters, customs and other matters. The wave of departures of officials originally appointed by Mr. Trump underscored his growing frustration with his own administration’s handling of immigration and other security issues. In recent days, Mr. Trump has threatened to close the southwestern border altogether only to back off and give Mexico a one-year notice in the face of warnings about deep economic damage from such a move. The shake-up, coming more than two years into Mr. Trump’s term, indicated that he is still searching for a team that will fulfill his desire for an even tougher approach to immigration. It also signaled the enduring influence of Stephen Miller, the president’s hard-line senior adviser who has complained about recalcitrant homeland security officials. Some of the president’s allies complained that he was going too far, taking out subordinates who actually share his goals on immigration at the prodding of White House aides hunting for scapegoats for the failure to control the border as he has promised to do. “Without names, there’s people in the White House that speak about immigration,” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said in an interview. “They haven’t accomplished a whole lot, so they need to find some other way to make themselves look important.” The latest shuffle came just a day after Mr. Trump pushed out Ms. Nielsen for not doing enough in his view to secure the border and three days after Ronald D. Vitiello, the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, was told to step aside so the administration could go in a “tougher direction,” as Mr. Trump put it. Officials said they expect to see the departures of L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services; Kathy Nuebel Kovarik, one of his top deputies; and John Mitnick, the department’s general counsel and a senior member of Ms. Nielsen’s leadership team. All of them were said to be viewed by Mr. Miller as obstacles to implementing the president’s policies. Since President Trump’s inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other. The White House is also pressing for the resignation of Claire Grady, the acting deputy secretary, who under law would normally fill in for Ms. Nielsen. Mr. Trump has already announced that he will install Kevin K. McAleenan, the Customs and Border Protection commissioner, as Ms. Nielsen’s acting replacement, which he cannot do if Ms. Grady remains in place. The latest moves appeared to be a housecleaning of officials associated with John F. Kelly, the president’s former chief of staff and his first homeland security secretary, who was pushed out at the end of last year after months of tension with Mr. Trump. Mr. Alles, a retired Marine major general who served with Mr. Kelly in the military and goes by Tex, was the first person from outside the Secret Service to head the agency in more than a century and some administration officials said he had a hard time fitting in. At Mr. Trump’s instruction, Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, told Mr. Alles at least 10 days ago to expect a transition after two years in office and to develop an exit plan, according to officials familiar with the discussions. Mr. Trump, who talks with members of his own Secret Service detail, had soured on Mr. Alles a while ago, convinced that as an outsider he was not popular among the agents, officials said. The president even made fun of the director’s looks, calling him Dumbo because of his ears. But a Secret Service ally of Mr. Alles disputed the notion that he did not fit in, saying that the director was well liked among the work force. Mr. Alles was told to develop an exit plan before the arrest of a Chinese woman carrying a malware-laced device at Mar-a-Lago, exposing holes in the security of the private club. The Secret Service was so disturbed that it issued a statement faulting the club’s staff for not tracking its guests closely enough. Some Secret Service officials said on Monday that they suspected that Mr. Alles’s departure was accelerated in part because of the episode. The White House made no mention of that in its statement announcing Mr. Alles’s departure issued shortly after it was reported by CNN. Mr. Alles “has done a great job at the agency over the last two years, and the president is thankful for his over 40 years of service to the country,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in the statement. She said he would be replaced in May by James M. Murray, a career Secret Service official who oversees protective operations. Mr. Alles was the focus of an early fight between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kelly in the first months of the administration. Mr. Kelly threatened to resign as homeland security secretary if Mr. Alles was not made Secret Service director, according to former administration officials. In an email message to his work force on Monday, Mr. Alles confirmed that his departure was ordered by the president last month. “No doubt you have seen media reports regarding my ‘firing,’” he wrote. “I assure you that this is not the case, and in fact was told weeks ago by the administration that transitions in leadership should be expected across the Department of Homeland Security. “The president has directed an orderly transition in leadership for this agency and I intend to abide by that direction,” he added. “It is my sincere regret that I was not able to address the work force prior to this announcement.” Regardless of when the decision was made, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said Mr. Alles should testify before Congress about the Mar-a-Lago breach. “The public and Congress need to know the extent to which adversarial governments — like China — and their agents are attempting to gain access to, or conduct electronic surveillance on, conversations or other information regarding national security at President Trump’s properties,” he said. Not all of Mr. Trump’s allies were happy with the moves. “There’s no doubt that Cissna has proved his competence, in a lot of things he’s doing — things that the president is for,” Mr. Grassley said. Referring to Mr. Cissna and Ms. Kovarik, both of whom once worked on his staff, Mr. Grassley said, “If he gets rid of these two, it’s self-defeating because I don’t know anyone else in the department or at least in immigration” who could do better. One administration official said Mr. Cissna angered Mr. Miller by refusing to make changes to asylum policy without congressional approval. Under current law, unauthorized immigrants facing expedited removal may seek asylum before an immigration judge if found to have a credible fear of persecution or torture. As for Ms. Nielsen, she expressed no unhappiness about her departure on Monday and thanked Mr. Trump “for the tremendous opportunity” to serve her country and the employees of her department for their efforts to secure the nation. The latest departures, along with previous vacancies, will leave the Department of Homeland Security without a permanent secretary, deputy secretary, two under secretaries, Secret Service director, Federal Emergency Management Agency director, ICE director, general counsel, citizenship and immigration services director, inspector general, chief financial officer, chief privacy officer and, once Mr. McAleenan moves, Customs and Border Protection commissioner. “The purge of senior leadership at the Department of Homeland Security is unprecedented and a threat to our national security,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, complained about “congressional dysfunction” in addressing border security, but added, “I am concerned with a growing leadership void within the department tasked with addressing some of the most significant problems facing the nation.” Peter Baker, Nicholas Fandos and Zolan Kanno-Youngs reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting from Washington.  OpinionMichelle Goldberg  ", "id": "5cab96c649f0eacbf1f81a4b", "date": "2019-04-08T18:43:55+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Kevin McAleenan, Top U.S. Border Enforcement Officer, Is Named Acting Head of Homeland Security", "full_text": " Kevin K. McAleenan, the commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection, will become the acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, President Trump said in a tweet on Sunday. The announcement came shortly after Mr. Trump said Kirstjen Nielsen was leaving the position, ending a tumultuous tenure in charge of the agency, which oversees border security, among other duties. She had taken the job in late 2017. Mr. McAleenan, 47, will oversee an agency that has at times been a target of the president’s dissatisfaction over an increase of migrants illegally entering the United States at the southwestern border. “I have confidence that Kevin will do a great job!” Mr. Trump said in his tweet. In her resignation letter, Ms. Nielsen said she hoped the incoming secretary would “have the support of Congress and the courts in fixing the laws which have impeded our ability to fully secure America’s borders and which have contributed to discord in our nation’s discourse.” Mr. McAleenan has a law degree from the University of Chicago and practiced law in California before he worked for the government. He held a variety of positions at the border protection agency before becoming its deputy commissioner in 2014 under the Obama administration. He won the country’s highest civil service honor, the Presidential Rank Award, in 2015. Mr. McAleenan became the acting commissioner of the agency in January 2017 and was formally sworn in as commissioner in March 2018. He focused on counterterrorism, border security and trade enforcement, oversaw about 60,000 employees and managed a budget of over $13 billion, according to the agency. As the nation’s top border enforcement officer, Mr. McAleenan also helped carry out the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy to prosecute parents caught crossing the border illegally, which led to family separations. That policy was reversed, but the effects remain. In court documents filed on Friday, the government said it might take federal officials two years to identify what could be thousands of immigrant children who were separated from their families at the border. In an interview in August, Mr. McAleenan said that “a better system would allow us to keep families together for the entirety of the immigration proceeding, which takes an average of 45 days.” He added that there should be a penalty for crossing the border illegally. “It’s not a victimless crime,” he said. “Not only are the people at risk, so are our agents who need to apprehend or rescue them. It’s also a diversionary tactic for smugglers who use family groups to tie down our agents while drugs are moved behind them.” Mr. McAleenan said his job as the agency’s commissioner was to enforce laws, not make them. Last month, Mr. McAleenan was the public face of new government data showing that unauthorized entries at the southwestern border were reaching record-breaking numbers; more than 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, an 11-year high. “The system is well beyond capacity, and remains at the breaking point,” he told reporters, adding that “this is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis.” At a Senate hearing last month, he suggested ways to address that crisis: The United States government should support governments in Central America to improve economic opportunities there, he said, and work with the Mexican authorities to clamp down on transnational criminal organizations that prey on migrants. “And we must invest in border security,” he said. “A modern border barrier system, additional agents and officers, additional technology at and between ports of entry, and air and marine support. And we must also have a whole-of-U.S.-government approach to address children’s unique medical needs and the undeniable humanitarian challenges we are facing.” OpinionThe Editorial Board   ", "id": "5caa9e2149f0eacbf1f817e8", "date": "2019-04-08T01:03:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Homeland Security, Israel, Church Fires: Your Monday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. A purge at the Department of Homeland Security.  A day after pushing out the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, President Trump moved to sweep out others in the department’s top ranks: the head of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the Secret Service director and the department’s general counsel. Mr. Trump has been pushing for even harsher border policies than Ms. Nielsen presided over, and to resume separating families. Above, Central American migrants turned themselves in at the border in Texas on Saturday. And his scrutiny of the Secret Service appears to have risen since agents arrested a Chinese woman over a week ago at Mar-a-Lago, his Florida resort. More details about that case came out at a court hearing today. _____ 2. On the eve of Israeli elections, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, above campaigning today, reached out to Israel’s right with a pledge that could end any possibility of a two-state solution. Facing the surging appeal of the former army chief Benny Gantz, Mr. Netanyahu promised that if re-elected, he would begin asserting Israeli sovereignty over areas of the West Bank. Mr. Netanyahu also may have received a last-minute boost from President Trump, who designated Iran’s Revolutionary Guard a terrorist group. U.S. military and intelligence chiefs are worried, however, about possible retaliation against their forces. _____ 3. In other international news: The new Brexit deadline is Friday. Prime Minister Theresa May’s government has been meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to resuscitate stalled talks over a compromise plan. Mrs. May is expected to seek another Brexit extension from European leaders on Wednesday. And we’re watching Sudan, where protesters have been massing to call for the departure of President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has wielded authoritarian power there for three decades. _____ 4.  “They didn’t burn down our spirit.” That was the Rev. Harry Richard, the pastor of one of three predominantly black churches in a single area of Louisiana that were destroyed in recent fires. State and federal authorities are trying to determine whether the fires were intentionally set, and if so, whether they were motivated by racism. A fourth, smaller fire at a church a few hours’ drive away was determined to be intentional. Our reporter found many residents uneasy over the echoes of racist attacks on black churches across the country. _____ 5. Stars plead guilty:  Allison Mack, above, an actress and one of the most high-profile members of the cultlike group Nxivm, pleaded guilty to racketeering and conspiracy charges. “I must take full responsibility for my conduct,” she said, sobbing while giving a lengthy statement at the Federal District Court in Brooklyn. And prosecutors said Felicity Huffman would plead guilty in the college admissions fraud scandal, along with 12 other parents and one coach. The actress is accused of paying a college consultant $15,000 to cheat on her older daughter’s SAT. “My daughter knew absolutely nothing about my actions, and in my misguided and profoundly wrong way, I have betrayed her,” Ms. Huffman said in a statement. _____ 6. In business news: Russia is trying to revive the world market for asbestos, which is mined, above, in a city named — wait for it — Asbest. The pitch: The mineral, chrysotile, is not as lethal as the other fibrous minerals marketed as asbestos. Pinterest set a price range for its coming I.P.O., which values the company at less than prior valuations of $12 billion. That dampens some of the fervor over this year’s wave of tech offerings. And Carlos Ghosn, who’s sitting in jail in Tokyo on charges ranging from underreporting his executive compensation to “aggravated breach of trust,” was voted off Nissan’s board. _____ Most cases in the United States have been in nursing homes in New York City, Chicago and New Jersey. Mass. N.Y. Conn. N.J. Ill. Ind. Md. Calif. Va. Okla. 200 Tex. 100 Fla. 25 Confirmed and probable cases, 2013–19 1 Mass. N.Y. Conn. N.J. Ill. Ind. Md. Calif. Va. Okla. 200 Tex. 100 Fla. Confirmed and probable cases, 2013–19 25 1 N.Y. N.J. Ill. Md. Ind. Calif. Va. Okla. 200 Tex. 100 Fla. 25 Confirmed and probable cases, 2013–19 1 7. In case you missed it, our story on Candida auris, a drug-resistant fungus exploding around the world, published over the weekend. One of the reporters who wrote our exposé explains how he came to realize that secrecy on the part of health officials and hospitals was a big part of the story. “As we prepare to move ahead with more articles on drug resistance,” he writes, “we understand that we are tackling an issue that is so scary, it feels easy for some people to ignore, less frightening to bury.” _____ 8. In sports: The Virginia Cavaliers defeated Texas Tech, 85-77, in overtime for the university’s first national basketball championship and immeasurable redemption. This title game was the first in 40 years between men’s teams that had never been there before. The women’s tournament crowned Baylor on Sunday, above, with an 82-81 victory over Notre Dame. And we examine why a 23-year-old Olympic cyclist and Stanford graduate student, Kelly Catlin, killed herself last month. Her family believes the breaking point was a concussion she sustained during a training ride in January. _____ 9. A different vision of life on the border.  A photographer, Tomas van Houtryve, followed the southern U.S. boundary that existed before the Mexican-American war in the 1840s. He met families who have lived in the region, now California, Nevada and Texas, for centuries. He found that it wasn’t the expansion of the U.S. that spread ideas like equality, liberty and democracy in the conquered lands. “In reality, these values arrived in the West straight from Mexico City,” he said. “The main ideological import of Anglo-Americans to the West at the time was actually strident white supremacy.” _____ 10. And finally, did you know “Game of Thrones” episodes will run about 80 minutes for the last four episodes of the final season? Did you know we have an obsessive watching guide to the previous seven seasons? It even has a countdown clock to HBO’s broadcast of Episode 1 of Season 8, on Sunday. Also, faith-based groups have a rare moment of agreement with the big screen thanks to “Unplanned,” a film that paints a scathing portrait of abortion rights and Planned Parenthood. And the trailer is out for “Homecoming,” the Netflix documentary about Beyoncé. And it’s clear that the focus is her much-praised headlining performance at Coachella last year. Have an entertaining evening. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5cabc76149f0eacbf1f81b14", "date": "2019-04-08T22:11:19+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Urged Homeland Security Official to Close Border Despite an Earlier Promise of a Delay", "full_text": " President Trump last week privately urged Kevin McAleenan, the border enforcement official he was about to name as acting secretary of homeland security, to close the southwestern border to migrants despite having just said publicly that he was delaying a decision on the step for a year, according to three people briefed about the conversation. It was not clear what Mr. Trump meant by his request or his additional comment to Mr. McAleenan that he would pardon him if he encountered any legal problems as a result of taking the action. Federal judges have already blocked the administration’s attempts to limit asylum seekers who illegally enter the country, and it is not likely that Mr. McAleenan would have ended up in jail if he had followed the president’s directive. One of the people briefed on the conversation said it was possible Mr. Trump had intended the comments to Mr. McAleenan as a joke. But the conversation, which took place during the president’s visit to the border town of Calexico, Calif., alarmed officials at the Department of Homeland Security who were told of it, according to the people familiar with the remarks. It was another instance of the president trying to undo a decision and to stretch the boundaries of his power, even when told there were legal issues at stake. The same situation played out on Friday, when Mr. Trump said he was considering releasing asylum seekers into so-called sanctuary cities after administration officials told reporters the proposal was rejected because of legal issues. The day before his conversation with Mr. McAleenan, Mr. Trump had retreated from his threat to close the border in a matter of days. Instead, he told reporters, he was issuing a “one-year warning” to Mexico to halt illegal immigration and drug trafficking. Privately, however, he was still pushing his aides to halt the flow of asylum seekers across the Mexican border. Besides Mr. McAleenan, who was then the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Mr. Trump was accompanied on the trip by Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security at the time. Ms. Nielsen had earlier refused to carry through with Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, telling him it was illegal. But the president encouraged Mr. McAleenan to disregard Ms. Nielsen and enforce the move himself. Two days later, Ms. Nielsen submitted her resignation under pressure from Mr. Trump, and the president appointed Mr. McAleenan to her job on an acting basis. A White House spokesman declined to respond to requests for comment on the conversation between the president and Mr. McAleenan. Tyler Q. Houlton, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, did not specifically address it. “At no time has the president indicated, asked, directed or pressured the acting secretary to do anything illegal,” Mr. Houlton said. “Nor would the acting secretary take actions that are not in accordance with our responsibility to enforce the law.” Mr. Trump’s desire to close the border, despite the legal impediments, was a factor in the forced resignation of Ms. Nielsen. It was one of a number of instances in which Ms. Nielsen believed she was being asked to engage in conduct that violated laws, according to several people with knowledge of those discussions. The president’s conversation with Mr. McAleenan came at a time when Mr. Trump was considering him as a successor to Ms. Nielsen, whom he was planning to remove from her job, according to officials familiar with his timing. It also came as the factions in the West Wing seeking to oversee immigration policy had been fighting for dominance, creating confusion for the department about whom to deal with or respond to. The discussion with Mr. McAleenan was one of the most acute examples of Mr. Trump’s desire to use any means to stem the tide of immigrants into the United States, and a reminder of what he would like to see as the unilateral powers of the presidency. Mr. Trump has been growing increasingly agitated about images of the border he has seen on television, and distressed by the number of immigrants entering the country from the border with Mexico. More undocumented immigrants were apprehended along the southern border in March than in any month since 2007, Customs and Border Protection reported this week. In response, the president has ramped up his messaging against not just illegal immigration but also legal immigration, mocking asylum seekers as fakes who are pretending to face difficult conditions to ease their passage across the border. While Mr. Trump has not publicly revisited closing the border, he has repeatedly excoriated Democrats over immigration policy and suggested that he will take more aggressive steps at the border. “I’m going to have to call up more military,” Mr. Trump told reporters during a visit to San Antonio this week. “Our military, don’t forget, can’t act like they would normally act because if they got a little rough, everybody would go crazy.” Mr. Trump’s insistence that he was still considering placing undocumented immigrants in sanctuary cities “due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws” came in a tweet on Friday morning. That statement directly contradicted his own aides, who on Thursday had described the proposal as a “suggestion that was floated and rejected, which ended any further discussion.” But Mr. Trump was eager to continue the discussion. If Democrats did not agree to new immigration policies, Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Friday, “we might as well do what they always say they want.” “We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” Mr. Trump continued, adding that California welcomed the idea of more people coming to the state. “We can give them a lot. We can give them an unlimited supply,” he said. After Mr. Trump’s comments, a White House spokesman indicated that the proposal was now back on the table, and that Democrats should work with the administration to welcome migrants into their districts. “Democrats say we must have open borders and that illegal immigrants have a right to be in this country at all costs,” the spokesman, Hogan Gidley said, “so they should be working with the administration to find the best ways to transport those illegal aliens that are already set for release, into communities in their districts and states.” Democratic lawmakers, however, are not advocating “open borders,” as the president has suggested. They favor enhancing border security, but do not support many of Mr. Trump’s hard-line immigration policy proposals, such as building a wall along the southern border. Last year, Trump administration officials had floated the idea of transporting migrants to sanctuary cities, which limit how local law enforcement can cooperate with federal immigration officers, as a way to address the influx of migrants crossing the border. One of the highest-profile sanctuary cities is San Francisco, home to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, one of the most effective opponents of the president’s efforts to change American immigration laws. The White House raised the proposal again in February, seeing it as a way to punish Democrats for their opposition. Ms. Pelosi’s office condemned the plan. “The extent of this administration’s cynicism and cruelty cannot be overstated,” said Ashley Etienne, a spokeswoman for Ms. Pelosi. “Using human beings — including little children — as pawns in their warped game to perpetuate fear and demonize immigrants is despicable, and in some cases, criminal.” Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Michael D. Shear and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.  ", "id": "5cb0eea649f0eacbf1f8380f", "date": "2019-04-12T20:00:12+0000"}]