[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Man Charged in Arson at Planned Parenthood Clinic in Missouri", "full_text": " A 42-year-old man was charged on Monday in connection with a fire that was set at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Columbia, Mo., last month. The man, Wesley Brian Kaster, was arrested Saturday, about three weeks after the authorities began investigating what they called a suspicious fire at the clinic on Feb. 10. Don Ledford, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office, declined to elaborate on a possible motive. “It’s early in the case,” he said. “It’s still an ongoing investigation.” In court papers, prosecutors noted that Mr. Kaster’s wife had posted a picture on Facebook in 2015 showing a handgun and the caption, “Guns Don’t Kill People, Planned Parenthood Kills People.” Mr. Kaster, who is in federal custody, faces one count of maliciously damaging a building owned by an organization that receives federal financial assistance, by means of fire or an explosive. A phone call to a number listed for Mr. Kaster and his wife was not returned Monday. Troy Stabenow, a lawyer appointed Monday to represent Mr. Kaster, said he was still reviewing the complaint and declined to make a statement. Planned Parenthood Great Plains, which oversees the clinic, the Columbia Health Center, said that it had reopened on Feb. 18. “We are grateful for law enforcement’s swift and serious response to this crime,” Dr. Brandon J. Hill, the president and chief executive of Planned Parenthood Great Plains, said in a statement Monday. The fire has drawn national attention at a challenging time for Planned Parenthood. Last month, the Trump administration announced it would bar organizations that provide abortion referrals from receiving federal family planning money, a move that could strip millions of dollars from the organization. On Monday, California filed suit to block the Trump administration’s move. The Columbia clinic had been one of two places in the state offering abortion services. But it was forced to stop last fall when its sole doctor was unable to get the necessary permissions to comply with new restrictions in Missouri that require abortion providers to obtain admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. “The circumstances surrounding the fire are coming into focus, and it is clear that this was an intentional effort to damage our facility in order to disrupt services and block patient access to sexual and reproductive health care,” Dr. Hill said in a statement last month. The F.B.I. had said last month it was investigating possible civil rights violations in the case under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. “We would not rule that out,” Mr. Ledford said Monday. Nobody was hurt in the fire, which was fully extinguished by a sprinkler system when firefighters arrived, according to court papers. The building was unoccupied at the time. Security footage showed someone wearing a hood leaving the area in the early morning hours as smoke rose from the clinic. In court records, the authorities laid out parts of the investigation that led to Mr. Kaster’s arrest. At the scene, investigators found five-gallon buckets that had held gasoline, which they said was used to fuel the fire. They cross-referenced recent purchases of those buckets at a local hardware store. Security footage captured a two-toned Toyota Sienna minivan missing a hubcap, so investigators pulled records for 55 such minivans registered to residents of Columbia, where Mr. Kaster lives. They said their investigation found that Mr. Kaster had bought buckets on Feb. 8, and that a minivan registered to Mr. Kaster matched what was at the scene, among other evidence. Investigators also found gloves at the scene. They contacted Mr. Kaster’s employer, a manufacturing company, which said it had issued the same type of gloves in January. The authorities said, based on security footage, that Mr. Kaster broke the front door of the clinic and threw a “Molotov cocktail-type incendiary device” inside it. No fire was visible, and he left as two unidentified people walked near the clinic. More than one hour later, he came back and walked to the clinic’s door. Shortly after, smoke came out of the broken front door and Mr. Kaster fled, the authorities said. Mr. Kaster is due in court on Thursday.    ", "id": "5c7df58649f0eacbf105b574", "date": "2019-03-05T04:03:56+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "F.B.I. Investigates Suspicious Fire at Planned Parenthood Clinic in Missouri", "full_text": " The F.B.I. has opened an investigation into a fire at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Missouri last weekend that the Columbia Police Department said was suspicious. The bureau, which is offering a $10,000 reward for information that leads to a conviction, is looking into possible federal civil rights violations under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. That law makes it a crime to intentionally damage or prevent access to services at reproductive health centers. According to the Police Department, someone wearing dark clothing was seen on security footage walking toward the Columbia Health Center shortly after 4 a.m. Sunday, and later retreating as smoke rose from the building. The fire was extinguished by the sprinkler system before firefighters arrived. No one was in the building at the time. A spokeswoman for the F.B.I. said Wednesday that it did not have any additional information about the fire that it could release. “The circumstances surrounding the fire are coming into focus, and it is clear that this was an intentional effort to damage our facility in order to disrupt services and block patient access to sexual and reproductive health care,” Dr. Brandon J. Hill, the president and chief executive of Planned Parenthood Great Plains, which oversees the Columbia center, said in a statement. The clinic had been one of two places in the state offering abortion services, but was forced to stop last fall when its sole doctor was unable to get the necessary permissions to comply with new restrictions in Missouri that require abortion providers to obtain admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. According to Planned Parenthood, the only facility that performs abortions in Missouri is in the St. Louis area. The health center, which offers family planning, testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections, cancer screenings and other services, is currently closed, according to Planned Parenthood’s statement, and is working to reopen next week. “Make no mistake — we are committed to providing care in the Columbia community, and this crime will not deter us from our mission,” Dr. Hill said. “Our patients rely on us each day, and with a strong community of supporters beside us, we will reopen our doors as soon as possible.”", "id": "5c64d05a3a125f5075c099b0", "date": "2019-02-14T02:18:40+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Administration Blocks Funds for Planned Parenthood and Others Over Abortion Referrals", "full_text": " The new rule would steer federal family planning funds under Title X to anti-abortion and faith based groups. The Trump administration announced on Friday that it will bar organizations that provide abortion referrals from receiving federal family planning money, a step that could strip millions of dollars from Planned Parenthood and direct it toward religiously-based, anti-abortion groups. The new federal rule is almost certain to be challenged in court. Clinics will be able to talk to patients about abortion, but not where they can get one. And clinics will no longer have to counsel women on all reproductive options, including abortion, a change that will make anti-abortion providers eligible for funding. The rule, which has been expected for months, is the most recent step by the Trump administration to shift the direction of federal health programs in a conservative direction. The administration has expanded the ability of employers to claim religious or moral objections to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that they offer employees insurance coverage for contraception. It has channeled funding for teen pregnancy prevention programs and family planning grants into programs that emphasize sexual abstinence over contraception. Some of these changes are being challenged in lawsuits by groups that support reproductive rights, but the new policies have broad support among evangelicals, who are a big part of the president’s political base. The rule announced on Friday is not a wholesale defunding of Planned Parenthood, a long-held goal of conservatives. Organizations receiving money through the federal family planning program, called Title X, will still be able to perform abortions but will have to do so in a separate facility from their other operations and adhere to the new requirement that they not refer patients to it.  Organizations that receive federal funds have already been prohibited for years from using that money to finance abortion services. The new rule goes a step further by ordering them to keep separate books for their abortion operations. Many women’s organizations said the new requirements will interfere with health providers’ responsibilities to fully counsel patients about reproductive health.  “Trump’s domestic gag rule harms women in more ways than one,” Stephanie Schriock, president of EMILY’S List, said in a statement. “It effectively dismantles Title X, forces doctors to lie and forbids them from referring their patients for abortion, and prevents women from being able to access Planned Parenthood’s services.” Anti-abortion organizations heralded the regulation as a long-sought victory. “The finalized ‘protect life rule’ draws a bright line between abortion and family planning programs,” Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said in a statement, adding that the rule will loosen Planned Parenthood’s “hold on tens of millions of tax dollars.” [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.] Title X provides $286 million in funding for programs that provide services like birth control, screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer and screening and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. These programs serve about 4 million patients each year, many of them poor, at more than 4,000 clinics. About 40 percent of those clinics are operated by Planned Parenthood, which receives close to $60 million through the family planning program each year. “In many parts of the country, Planned Parenthood is the only provider who participates in the program,” said Dr. Leana Wen, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.  She added: “Patients expect their doctors to speak honestly with them, to answer their questions, to help them in their time of need. Imagine if the Trump administration prevented doctors from talking to our patients with diabetes about insulin. It would never happen. Reproductive health care should be no different.” The new rule is not the first time a Republican administration has tried to withhold family planning funds from organizations that provide abortion counseling or services. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan barred clinics from not only referring patients for abortions, but also from counseling them about abortions. That rule was challenged all the way to the Supreme Court, which upheld it in 1991, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush. But the Bush administration did not implement it and in 1993 Bill Clinton was sworn in as president and eliminated the rule. Conservative lawmakers hailed the new rule as a long overdue move back toward the Reagan policy, and some were especially pleased by the prospect that anti-abortion health providers could now be eligible for federal family planning funds. “Importantly, faith-based health organizations will no longer be forced to compromise their pro-life principles to receive government funding,” said Rep. Steve Scalise, the House Republican Whip. But several medical organizations predicted that the new rule would ultimately leave large numbers of patients, especially low-income and minority women, without access to basic care. Dr. Niva Lubin-Johnson, president of the National Medical Association, which represents African-American physicians and their patients, said that if Planned Parenthood loses the funding, other providers supported by the program would have to increase their caseloads by an average of 70 percent to care for the 1.6 million people who currently receive such services through Planned Parenthood. “Many providers have already said they would be unable to fill this gap,” Dr. Lubin-Johnson said. “This rule will have dire and disproportionate consequences for African-American patients, who make up 22 percent of people who access health care through Title X.” Most of the changes required by the new regulation will be phased in beginning 60 days after it is published in the Federal Register. Compliance with the financial separation requirement takes effect 120 days after publication and clinics have a year to comply with the physical separation requirements. Robert Pear contributed reporting from Washington. Pam Belluck is a health and science writer. She was one of seven Times staffers awarded the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting for coverage of the Ebola epidemic. She is the author of “Island Practice,” about a colorful and contrarian doctor on Nantucket.  @PamBelluck ", "id": "5c704cbd3a125f5075c0b128", "date": "2019-02-22T19:24:19+0000"}]