[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Myth of the Border Wall", "full_text": " Where the American frontier once symbolized perennial rebirth, President Trump’s signature project now looms like a national tombstone. Mr. Grandin is a professor of history. All nations have borders, but only the United States has had a frontier — or at least a frontier that served as a symbol for freedom, synonymous with the possibilities and promises of modern life and held out as a model for the rest of the world to emulate. For over a century, the American frontier represented the universalism of the nation’s ideals. It suggested not only that the country was moving forward, but also that the brutality involved in moving forward would be transformed into something noble. Extend the sphere of America’s influence, as James Madison believed, and you would ensure peace, protect individual liberty and dilute factionalism. As our boundaries widened, all of humanity would become our country. There was no problem caused by expansion that couldn’t be solved by more expansion. But today the frontier is closed. The country has lived past the end of that myth. After centuries of pushing forward across the frontier — first, the landed frontier, then the frontiers of expanding economic markets and sweeping military dominance — all the things that expansion was supposed to preserve have been destroyed, and all the things it was meant to destroy have been preserved. Instead of peace, there is endless war. Instead of prosperity we have intractable inequality. Instead of a critical, resilient and open-minded citizenry, a conspiratorial nihilism, rejecting reason and dreading change, has taken hold. Where the frontier once symbolized perennial rebirth, Donald Trump’s border wall — even if it remains mostly phantasmagorical, a perpetual negotiating chip between Congress and the White House — now looms like a tombstone. A fortunate few, of course, still have access to something that looks like a frontier. Post-Cold-War globalization has afforded corporations their own endless horizons. And the fantasies of the superrich, no less than their capital, are given free range: They imagine themselves as living in floating villages beyond government control, or they fund research meant to help them escape death, upload their consciousness into the cloud or fly off to Mars. But for most everyone else in America, the boundaries of freedom have contracted. A whole generation may never recover from the Great Recession that followed the financial crisis of 2008. Social mobility is stagnant. And there is a growing sense — as vast stretches of the American West burn, as millions of trees die, as the acidifying oceans fill up with plastic and as species  disappear — that the world stands on the precipice of catastrophe. It might be tempting to think that President Trump’s border wall represents a more accurate, hard-bitten assessment of how the world works. The frontier was, after all, a mirage, an ideological relic of a naïve or dishonest universalism. There were, in fact, limits and costs to America’s seemingly unstoppable growth. The border wall, in contrast, is a monument to disenchantment, to a brutal geopolitical realism: Racism was never transcended; there’s not enough wealth to go around; not everyone in the global economy can have a seat at the table. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] In a nation like ours, founded on a cult of exceptionalism — a belief that the country was somehow exempt from the burdens of history — the realization that life isn’t limitless was bound to be traumatic. It was also bound to produce, in the symbol of a wall, its own governing illusion. To talk about the frontier was a way of talking about American-style capitalism, about its power and possibility and its promise of boundlessness. Mr. Trump figured out that to talk about the border, and to promise a wall, was a way of acknowledging capitalism’s limits, its costs, without having to challenge the status quo. He won the presidency by running against the entire postwar order: interventionism, austerity and unfettered corporate power. But unable to offer an alternative other than driving the existing agenda forward at breakneck speed, he pledged instead to build a wall. Whether or not the wall gets built, it is America’s new symbol. It stands for a nation that still thinks “freedom” means freedom from restraint but no longer pretends that everyone can be free, and it enforces that reality through cruelty, domination and racism. Even as President Trump, the wall’s builder, insists that the world now has limits, he himself cultivates a petulant hedonism, an unchecked freedom to hate, an enraged refusal of constraint. The power of frontier Americanism had been its ability to take social conflict, be it settler-style racism or the demand for more equitable wealth distribution, and resolve it through a vibrant, forward-moving political centrism that could credibly claim to be an expression of liberal universalism. Maybe after President Trump is gone, that center can be re-established. But it seems doubtful. Politics appears to be moving in two opposite directions. One way, nativism beckons; Mr. Trump, for now, is its standard-bearer. The other way, some kind of social democracy calls, especially to younger voters. Coming generations will face a stark choice, one long deferred by the allure of frontier universalism but set forth in vivid relief by recent events: the choice between barbarism and socialism. Greg Grandin is a professor of history at New York University and the author of the forthcoming “The End of the Myth: From the Frontier to the Border Wall in the Mind of America,” from which this essay is adapted. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6dea5e3a125f5075c0ab13", "date": "2019-02-21T00:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Strange Little Section of the Border Wall", "full_text": " Crossing the Border newsletter Welcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox. The border wall doesn’t get any shorter or stranger than this — giant, pointy-topped steel pillars that would seem imposing, if only there were more of them. This border fence has exactly 36 burgundy-colored beams. They stand alone on a grassy island in South Texas where two dirt roads intersect. It’s open on the left and open on the right. You can walk around the whole thing at a fast clip in 17.36 seconds, a quick lap around a pocket-sized piece of America’s border security. The line that is the border wall here is dotted. It zigs. It zags. It stops. It starts. It stops again. It has corners where it mimics the twists and turns of the Rio Grande. And it has doors. Sometimes, these doors are gates that open when a code is entered on a keypad. Sometimes, these doors are full-fledged openings — a road cuts into the fence, leaving a gap that essentially gives the Border Patrol one more thing to worry about. The mini-wall is the unusual product of two such openings. The fence line in the Texas border town of Los Indios spreads out north of the Los Indios International Bridge, about 20 miles northwest of Brownsville. The steel-slat wall traces a path parallel to Robertson Street, in a flat rural landscape of corn and grain sorghum fields. But at the point where Robertson Street intersects with Rio Grande Avenue, the border wall takes a hard left and flows to the west along Rio Grande Avenue. The fence designers created an opening on Robertson but also put another one at Rio Grande. So as the fence turns at this intersection, the two openings create a leftover morsel of wall in the middle: a lonely, taxpayer-funded gothic median. President Trump lamented the various doors in the border wall last week, during a border-security roundtable in Calexico, Calif. He talked about a stretch of fence along the Rio Grande that had been erected under previous administrations, saying it was “not a good-looking wall” because it had “36 doors that you can drive a truck through.” “So now we’re filling up those big, those big gaping wounds in this wall and it’s going to have a big effect,” Mr. Trump said. But it’s unclear if the president was aware of this Los Indios patch, which was built around 2009. Local and federal officials said the funding dried up to close the openings and install gates that would connect the grassy island with the rest of the fencing. Representative Filemon B. Vela Jr., a Democrat who represents Brownsville in Congress and whose district includes Los Indios, said the little piece of fence illustrated the pointlessness of a border wall, regardless of which administration built it. “I’ve voted against every single piece of border wall funding that’s ever come up, and I’m going to continue to do so,” Mr. Vela said. “Decisions are being made in Washington in terms of where to put fencing that don’t make any sense.” As the president suggested, this strange little spot’s days appear to be numbered. A Border Patrol official who oversees the Los Indios area, Henry Leo, the patrol agent in charge of the agency’s station in Harlingen, Tex., said plans are in the works to finally install the necessary gates in the next one to three years. “We did request additional fencing and gates in that area, so what you see right now is not the complete picture,” Mr. Leo said. “The plan is to connect to that piece of fencing and make it a continuous fence with gates.” Both Mr. Leo and the mayor of Los Indios, Rick Cavazos, defended the fence in the area, including the stand-alone section, saying that overall the fencing had helped decrease illegal crossings. “I saw a dramatic decline in crossings and apprehensions as a result of the barrier,” said Mr. Cavazos, who is a retired Border Patrol agent. “In 2004, 2005, 2006, this was a high crossing area. People would come up from the river. The numbers went down.” On a hot April afternoon, it was all quiet at the fence island. The loudest sound was the soil: the dry brush, dirt and grass crunches underfoot. The pillars of the fence are as rough as sandpaper, and leave little red flakes on your fingertips that resemble chili powder. Adding to the head-scratching quality of this fence is its location. On one side of the fence is America. But the other side is America, too. The fence runs inland, far from the river, the middle of which is the official boundary between Mexico and the United States. That means this 36-beam fence in one sense divides the country itself. In that sense, the openings in the fence are necessary: They allow property owners and ranchers to access their land that is north of the river but south of the fence, a region locals call a “no man’s land.” Here, as much as anywhere, the Border Patrol is watching. Walk around the spot, and it’s only a matter of minutes before two agents drive up in marked and unmarked vehicles. Manny is one of a team of New York Times journalists reporting on the border. Each week they share a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it. Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com. That’s how many children are expected to cross the border and enter the immigration enforcement system this month. A story this week by Michael D. Shear, Miriam Jordan and Manny Fernandez explores years of warnings that the U.S. immigration system is broken, or on the verge of breaking, and how it got there: In recent days, officials have grasped for ever-more-dire ways to describe the situation: “operational emergency”; “unsustainable”; “systemwide meltdown.” One top official said simply: “The system is on fire.” Read the full story here.  First came the news that Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen had resigned, likely at the request of President Trump. Then, at least two other high ranking agency officials were pegged for dismissal — all of it happening days after the president had pulled back on his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement, with Mr. Trump telling reporters that he had decided to go in a “tougher direction.” It’s been a whirlwind week on the immigration front, with all signs suggesting that the president plans to triple down on his goal of securing the border. The unusually large number of heads rolling around Washington seemed to indicate that anyone with misgivings about the administration’s plans will be asked — if not forced — to leave. Mr. Trump is operating under mounting pressure from unauthorized border crossings that are steadily increasing. And he’s contending with the painful reality that after 14 months of harsh policies designed to discourage immigration, he, the president who was elected on a promise to crack down on border crossings, has not made a meaningful dent in them. To the contrary, whoever fills the now-open jobs in his administration will have to contend with record numbers of Central American families seeking asylum, all of whom are being processed through a decades-old system that is not equipped to handle them. And their efforts will be frustrated by the same set of laws and court settlements that have blocked many of the administration’s attempts thus far from going into effect. It was those laws that led to the downfall of Ms. Nielsen, who lost her job because the president felt that she was not hawkish enough. Though she became known during her tenure as the public face of many of Mr. Trump’s most controversial immigration policies, including family separation, in private, the two had often clashed when she cautioned him about the legal and logistical constraints that rendered his policy ideas untenable. Read earlier installments of Crossing the Border here. Sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.  ", "id": "5caf61e049f0eacbf1f82d38", "date": "2019-04-11T15:47:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The ‘Ethics’ of Trump’s Border Wall", "full_text": " A wall would cause harm to immigrants and refugees, all of whom are equal to us in the eyes of God. Cardinal Tobin is the archbishop of Newark.  Is the border wall ethical? President Trump has suggested the wall is moral and those who oppose it immoral. His critics claim the opposite.  To answer this, we have to consider its effect on humans. What harm could a border wall cause to immigrants and refugees, all of whom are equal to us in the eyes of God?  Some people who cross the border are in desperate search of work to support their families. A wall would probably drive them into more remote areas of the desert or mountains, possibly to their deaths, as the forces driving them — violence, persecution and extreme poverty — are more life threatening than a risky border crossing. In fact, close to 8,000 migrants have died in Arizona and parts of Texas since the construction of the San Diego and El Paso sectors of the wall in the mid-1990s. The latest arrivals at our border are primarily asylum seekers from the Northern Triangle of Central America, who, when they cross the border and ask for protection, are in compliance with both our domestic and our international laws — the Refugee Act of 1980 and the 1951 United Nations Refugee Convention and its 1967 protocols. A wall would prevent asylum seekers from asking for protection at any point along our border — their right under the law — and would leave many of them at the mercy of drug cartels and other criminal groups in northern Mexico. More humane ways to achieve border security can be found to avoid these harmful consequences, through technology, additional legal avenues for entry and policies that address the factors pushing migration.  You must also look at the intent of someone who wants to construct a wall in order to determine its morality. In this case, it is clear that Mr. Trump wants to deny entry to anyone crossing the southern border, even those who have a right to cross and seek protection and are no threat to us. The administration has just instituted a policy known as “Remain in Mexico,” which requires asylum seekers to stay in that country until their hearings, a process that could keep them vulnerable to organized crime for months or years. Mr. Trump is not acting with concern for the impact of the wall on their lives, including those of children, who would remain subject to danger. He also ignores the adverse impact of the wall on the environment, landowners and border communities, like the harm it can cause to wildlife and vegetation, the livelihoods of ranchers and farmers and cross-border commerce. Other policies his administration has pursued, including family separation, the rollback of asylum laws, family detention, the elimination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and termination of Temporary Protected Status for most of its beneficiaries, show that the administration’s intent is to rid the United States of as many immigrants — legal or otherwise — as possible. The way in which Mr. Trump has argued for a wall also is instructive. In trying to secure funding, he has cast all immigrants as criminals and threats to national security by spreading misleading and inaccurate information about them. His justification for the wall is based upon lies and smears against the vast majority of immigrants who are law-abiding and moral, but whom he paints as less than human. The president likes to highlight violent crimes committed by undocumented immigrants, for example, but fails to point out that immigrants commit crimes, including violent ones, at a much lower rate than citizens. All Americans grieve the harm caused when a violent crime is committed. That does not mean they agree that a border wall is the most effective way to prevent it.  A wall itself is not immoral, but it can be constructed for an immoral purpose. President John F. Kennedy and President Ronald Reagan both resisted the Berlin Wall, which prevented millions in the Soviet Bloc from seeking freedom in the West. It eventually came down. Immigration reform that is humane and honors our nation’s values must finally be enacted, and the root causes of global migration addressed. This is the moral direction in which the president should lead the nation. Joseph W. Tobin is the archbishop of Newark. ", "id": "5c51ce923a125f5075c071ff", "date": "2019-01-30T16:19:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Butterflies, Bulldozers and Barbed Wire Rally Border Wall Opponents", "full_text": " From peaceful protests to resolutions condemning the fencing, communities along the United States-Mexico border are engaged in acts of resistance. As a political fight rages in Washington over President Trump’s demand for $5.7 billion in border wall funding, there have been spirited acts of resistance on the United States-Mexico border.  Protests have been held. Resolutions passed. And initiatives funded to help the very people the wall is aimed to keep out. [This month, we’re launching a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics. Sign up here to receive the first issue of Crossing the Border when it launches.] Bulldozers arrived last week near the National Butterfly Center in the Rio Grande Valley of Texas, signaling the Trump administration’s intention to begin construction on a steel and concrete barrier that would swallow more than two-thirds of the 100-acre wildlife refuge and botanical garden. The nonprofit center, which abuts the Rio Grande, sits on the path of a six-mile stretch of wall that has already been funded.  Federal government officials had said construction was scheduled to begin this month, despite an ongoing lawsuit filed by the center more than a year ago, said the center’s director, Marianna Trevino Wright. The center planned to file a restraining order to prevent workers from beginning construction on the wall, which would rise to 36 feet in some areas. The federal government waived 28 environmental laws to expedite construction. The Rio Grande Valley is one of the most biologically diverse regions in the country and a major bird migration corridor, with more than 500 species recorded.  In a GoFundMe campaign that has raised more than half of a $100,000 goal to pay for legal fees associated with ongoing litigation against the Trump administration, the center's director wrote that the issue “is not whether butterflies can fly over a wall, but whether private property (farms, businesses, homes) should be seized and destroyed for a project that does not serve the greater good or enhance national security.” In his State of the Union speech last Tuesday evening, Mr. Trump claimed the border city of El Paso, Tex., was once among America’s most violent cities — until a “powerful barrier” was constructed. And then, “immediately upon its building,” it became “one of the safest cities in our country.” But that is not true. Before border fencing was erected in El Paso, the city of about 680,000 residents had the second-lowest violent crime rate among more than 20 cities of similar size. In 2010, after the barrier was built, that rate held that spot.  Residents and elected officials immediately took to social media to dispel the notion that border cities are dangerous.  Mr. Trump is scheduled to hold a 2020 campaign rally Monday in El Paso, where about 26 percent of registered voters cast ballots for him two years ago. El Paso is also the hometown of Beto O’Rourke, the Democratic former congressman who has said he’s considering jumping into the crowded field of candidates vying to challenge the president.  Few elected officials were enthusiastic about the president’s coming visit, with one, State Representative César J. Blanco, issuing a statement that said the president’s “fear-mongering and lies have hurt our border economy and community.” Mr. Blanco, a Navy veteran and Democrat whose House District 76 includes part of El Paso County, said the city “should not be rolling out the red carpet, so he can come lie in our backyard.” The city’s Republican mayor, Dee Margo, also quickly defended El Paso, saying on Twitter late Tuesday night that the city’s law enforcement officers kept the border community safe. Shortly before Mr. Trump appeared before Congress last week to deliver a speech that would again include arguments for a border wall, New Mexico’s governor announced she had ordered a partial withdrawal of National Guard troops from her state. “New Mexico will not take part in the president’s charade of border fear-mongering by misusing our diligent National Guard troops,” Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat, said in a statement. Her decision was a reversal of her predecessor’s deployment of 118 National Guard personnel last April.  And in California on Monday, Gov. Gavin Newsom was expected to follow suit and order the withdrawal of nearly 400 state National Guard troops from deployment along the border with Mexico. Under a “general order” that his aides said he planned to sign, 110 California National Guard troops would be redirected to support the state’s central fire agency, Cal Fire, and another 100 would work on statewide “intelligence operations” aimed at international criminal drug gangs. In New Mexico, about a dozen guardsmen will remain in the southwestern part of the state, Ms. Grisham said, to help with humanitarian aid for migrants who cross the border into the United States. She also directed the deployment of six state police officers to assist local law enforcement officers in Hidalgo County, saying she recognized the county’s “legitimate concerns” about the number of asylum seekers arriving in the state.  Hundreds of migrants have surrendered to the Border Patrol in New Mexico in recent weeks, including children in need of immediate medical care — a situation state officials say is without precedent. Prompting these trips to ever-more-remote border locations: The nearly 700 miles of border wall and fencing built since 2006, and the Trump administration’s increasingly rigid immigration policies aimed at deterring the flow of migrant families, mostly from Central America, who have streamed in from Mexico since 2014. [Read: ‘Desperation of Thousands’ Pushes Migrants Into Ever Remote Terrain] Gov. Grisham took aim at Mr. Trump’s proposed wall in a video that went viral this week. About 20,000 people live in Nogales, Ariz., and close to another half-million live across the border in Nogales, Mexico. A fence about 10 feet tall divides the two, but like most communities along the United States-Mexico border, their economies, cultures and daily lives are intertwined. In November, the United States military descended on Nogales and promptly got to work installing barbed wire at the port of entry and atop the international border wall. This month, the military added horizontal strands of wire to the United States side of the fence, from the top of the wall to the ground. Last Wednesday evening, the Nogales City Council passed a resolution condemning the installation of the wire, calling it an “indiscriminate use of lethal force” that is “typically only found in a war, battlefield or prison setting.” With its sharp razor-like blades, barbed wire is “designed to entangle its victim as the razors slice/cut deeply in to the flesh” and would kill anyone who tried to scale the wall. The City Council said it wanted the federal government to remove the wire, and has vowed to sue the Trump administration if that does not happen. The resolution came one day after Mr. Trump addressed the nation and implored Americans to support his case for a border wall.  Barbed wire has been installed on fencing across Arizona, Texas and California. [Read: Deployed Inside the United States: The Military Waits for the Migrant Caravan] In California, where about 105 miles of the state’s 140-mile border with Mexico have some sort of fencing, elected officials have pushed back against the Trump administration’s pledge to fill in the spaces. Residents of Calexico, a small border town that recently saw the completion of renovations to a steel barrier, chafed at the barbed wire that also was installed, with one chalking it up to political propaganda from a White House that cannot fathom life along the southwest frontier. Earlier this month, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California asked state lawmakers to provide $5 million in immediate funding to local charities that help asylum seekers. The aid would be followed by another $20 million over three years, intended to assist groups that have helped migrants who were dropped off by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents at bus stations.  As the number of migrant families in recent months has overwhelmed the government’s detention facilities, the Trump administration has drastically reduced its efforts to ensure the migrants’ safety after they are released. Stepping into the void has been a growing network of charities, expanding along the border from California to Texas.  [Read: As Government Pulls Back, Charities Step In to Help Released Migrants]", "id": "5c5dd8b83a125f5075c08c6c", "date": "2019-02-08T19:28:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Why a Border Wall Could Mean Trouble for Wildlife", "full_text": " Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter. As the fight continues over President Trump’s demand to extend the border wall between the United States and Mexico, one thing is clear: Whatever the wall’s effect on immigration might be, it would have an impact on the environment of the borderlands. About 650 miles of border wall already exist along the 2,000-mile boundary between the two countries. Most of it has been built on federal land where the terrain provides no natural barrier. Mr. Trump has called for a 1,000-mile wall, which would extend farther across land that includes important habitats for wildlife. A Customs and Border Protection policy says the agency “will integrate environmental stewardship and sustainability practices into operations and activities.” But Congress has given the agency the power to waive environmental protections like the Endangered Species Act. Such laws could require the government to produce an in-depth environmental impact analysis of a new project, develop less-damaging alternatives and perform environmental monitoring after construction. A spokesman for Customs and Border Protection was unavailable because of the partial government shutdown, a result of the political standoff over funding for the wall. An article published last year in the journal Bioscience, which has been signed by more than 2,900 scientists, said the administration’s plan would “threaten some of the continent’s most biologically diverse regions” by blocking free movement of many species and contributing to flooding. More than 1,500 native animal and plant species would be affected by the wall, the paper said, including 62 listed as endangered or vulnerable. Here are some of the possible effects that an extended border wall could have on wildlife. An extended border wall would impede the movement of many species and would put creatures already under pressure in peril. Aaron D. Flesch, a research scientist at the University of Arizona, said he had no doubt that endlessly inventive humans could scale a wall. But it would block many four-legged creatures, he said. Even some low-flying birds like the ferruginous pygmy-owl could have trouble. “You think a bird’s just going to fly over a wall, but that’s not necessarily the case,” Dr. Flesch said. Animals need to be able to move around, to find food and mates, among other things. An outbreak of fire or disease, or the pressures of climate change, can force them to seek new homes. And the pockets of the landscape that suit them can be widely dispersed. Small populations of endangered animals — such as the Mexican gray wolf, or lobo, and the Sonoran pronghorn — may be stranded on either side of the border, leaving some species likelier to die out. “For a critter that’s nearly extinct in the U.S., you need to promote connectivity, not curtail it,” Dr. Flesch said. Even a less-than-solid wall that incorporates bollards or “slats,” as Mr. Trump has sometimes proposed, could disrupt wildlife, Dr. Flesch said. While some smaller animals would be able to slip through, even the low, permeable vehicle barriers already erected in some areas can act as “behavioral barriers” to some species like the Sonoran pronghorn, which are “open country runners that avoid fences,” he said. Researchers have identified a number of creatures at risk that are rare in the Southern United States, though some have larger populations in Mexico. Vulnerable species in Texas’ Lower Rio Grande Valley include the ocelot and the black bear, according to University of Texas scientists. The National Wildlife Federation has also warned of problems for desert bighorn sheep and called the erection of a continuous wall “one of the biggest potential ecological disasters of our time.” Low-flying insects could be affected by a border wall, too. The University of Texas researchers named the endangered wildflower Zapata bladderpod and the threatened whiskerbush cactus as particularly at risk, and the National Wildlife Federation named the Quino checkerspot butterfly, among others. Many pollinators are already in decline because of habitat loss, said Scott Hoffman Black, executive director of the Xerces Society, a conservation organization with a focus on invertebrates. “This is one more issue that is going to put stress on bees and butterflies, and they’re already stressed with many, many issues,” he said. The long new stretches of a wall, with clear-cut “enforcement zones” to the south, could prove an impediment to many little fliers. Another expert expressed doubt that the wall itself would prove much of a barrier to flying insects, but he said the wall would nonetheless present an enormous problem for some of them. The expert, David L. Wagner, a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Connecticut, noted that most insects can fly high enough to surmount a wall. But the array of lights that would be part of any such construction, he said, would disrupt the lives of nocturnal creatures like moths and even vertebrates that depend on darkness. “Light pollution is turning out to be a real problem for nocturnal animals,” he said. “You’re pulling at the fabric of these ecosystems.” Of course, there are illuminated buildings in many places. But Dr. Wagner said there was little difference between a border wall and a Walmart. Either way, he said, “It’s slaughter.” Construction would disrupt several pieces of land that have been designated part of the National Wildlife Refuge System, as well as other treasures like the National Butterfly Center, a private nature preserve along the Rio Grande in Mission, Tex. Construction into the 100-acre sanctuary could begin as soon as next month, splitting off some 70 acres from the American side of the site. After an outcry from environmentalists and local officials, Congress voted last year to protect one environmental jewel, the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, a 2,100-acre “ecological crossroads” for migratory birds near McAllen, Tex., by refusing to appropriate money that would build the wall through it. But environmental advocates say the areas that will go unprotected are vast, and the losses to biodiversity will stretch far beyond the thin line of the border. As Texas Monthly put it, “Federal Border Wall Funding Spares Wildlife Refuge, but Not Much Else.” Because of the richness of the environment along many stretches of the border, the area draws tourists for hunting and fishing — and, to a great extent, ecotourism. Birders have spotted more than 500 species in the four counties that make up the Lower Rio Grande Valley. A 2011 study from Texas A&M University estimated that bird watching and other forms of environmental tourism brought more than $344 million in economic activity to the area, and some 4,400 jobs. The authors of the article in Bioscience, including Dr. Flesch, said the government should protect the “cultural value” of the borderlands. “National security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage,” they wrote. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter. John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.  @jswatz • Facebook ", "id": "5c4a38bc3a125f5075c062fb", "date": "2019-01-24T22:14:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Boo, Hiss, Border Wall", "full_text": " A night of dueling poor performances from the nation’s political leaders. Opinion Columnist This article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday. Televised prime-time speeches are performances. No matter how serious the subject, they are an opportunity for politicians to use the tools of entertainment — lighting, setting, writing, delivery — in the service of persuasion. Neither President Trump nor the Democratic congressional leaders did a particularly effective job last night, in their dueling speeches about the government shutdown. Trump is almost comically stiff while reading a pre-written speech. He spent much of his Oval Office address squinting in the camera, as if he couldn’t read his teleprompter, and — as social media noted — he audibly sniffed after many of his lines. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, for their part, crowded next to each other at a single podium — an awkward set-up that, as Clare Malone of FiveThirtyEight pointed out, is likely to be parodied on Saturday Night Live this coming weekend. It’s unlikely that either performance was effective enough to move public opinion. “Literally no one will remember the Trump speech one week from now. (Same goes, obviously, for the Democratic response),” wrote MSNBC’s Chris Hayes. If last night helped either side, it was probably the Democrats, mostly because they remain in the better position on the fight over the border wall. “Schumer’s doing a nice job painting Trump into the shutdown corner here. Democrats are happy to reopen the government and keep negotiating on the border. Trump isn’t. That’s the winning position,” wrote Vox’s Ezra Klein. Related: In The Washington Post, Marc Thiessen makes the case that Trump was effective. I disagree, on both tactical and substantive grounds, but Thiessen’s piece gives you a sense of what the other side is saying this morning.  Trump avoided some of his most blatant lies about immigration and the border wall last night, but the entire premise of the speech — a crisis! — was false. Vox’s Dara Lind has a good explainer. The weak president Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski became the latest Republican senator yesterday to support reopening the government without funding for Trump’s border wall. She joins Susan Collins of Maine and Cory Gardner of Colorado. Yes, all of them are operating partly out of opportunism. They are no doubt afraid of Trump’s unpopularity, both overall and on this issue, and all three face re-election campaigns in 2020. But their distancing themselves from Trump still matters. He is a weak president, and he seems to be getting weaker. Reader feedback Theda Skocpol, the Harvard professor who studies political movements, wrote me with some thoughts about yesterday’s newsletter on gerrymandering, and I think it’s worth quoting her note in full:  I agree with your gerrymandering comments here, but I think the real issues go deeper. It is not just a question of whether aggregate votes translate into proportional legislative seats overall. Extreme gerrymandering breaks up natural communities into bits and pieces separated into different districts. It contributes to confusing citizens about who is responsible for what — especially when policies impact entire cities or regions — and makes organizing much harder, because people literally have to learn about disparate local, state, and national legislative boundaries.  I have been in both Tea Party and Indivisible group local meetings where active citizens are spending a lot of time trying to figure out jigsaw like boundaries and how to contact neighbors in relation to who represents them. Democratic organizing and accountability become much harder. I think this is an intended effect of extreme gerrymandering, especially when cities are divided up. That’s yet another reason for a federal law restricting gerrymandering. And although he didn’t contact me directly, another Times reader apparently had some detailed thoughts about my column from this past weekend.  If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c360e973a125f5075c038ba", "date": "2019-01-09T15:09:06+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump’s National Address Escalates Border Wall Fight", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump doubled down on one of the biggest gambles of his presidency on Tuesday night with a televised appeal to pressure Congress into paying for his long-promised border wall, even at the cost of leaving the government partly closed until lawmakers give in. Embarking on a strategy that he himself privately disparaged as unlikely to work, Mr. Trump devoted the first prime-time Oval Office address of his presidency to his proposed barrier in hopes of enlisting public support in an ideological and political conflict that has shut the doors of many federal agencies for 18 days. In a nine-minute speech that made no new arguments but included multiple misleading assertions, the president sought to recast the situation at the Mexican border as a “humanitarian crisis” and opted against declaring a national emergency to bypass Congress, which he had threatened to do, at least for now. But he excoriated Democrats for blocking the wall, accusing them of hypocrisy and exposing the country to criminal immigrants. [Read our fact checks of Mr. Trump’s speech.] “How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?” Mr. Trump asked, citing a litany of grisly crimes said to be committed by illegal immigrants. Asking Americans to call their lawmakers, he added: “This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve.” Democrats dismissed his talk of crisis as overstated cynicism and, with polls showing Mr. Trump bearing more of the blame since the partial shutdown began last month, betrayed no signs of giving in. The White House earlier in the day dispatched Vice President Mike Pence and others to Capitol Hill to try to shore up Senate Republicans, who are growing increasingly anxious as the standoff drags on. In their own televised response on Tuesday night, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, accused the president of stoking fear and mocked him for asking taxpayers to foot the bill for a wall he had long said Mexico would pay for. “President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage, must stop manufacturing a crisis and must reopen the government,” Ms. Pelosi said. In taking his argument to a national television audience and on a trip to the Texas border he plans to take on Thursday, Mr. Trump hoped to reframe the debate. After spending much of the first two weeks of the shutdown cloistered in the White House, he has now opted to use the powers of the presidency to focus public attention on his ominous warnings about the border. The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected. [Full transcripts: Trump’s speech and the Democratic response.] Yet privately, Mr. Trump dismissed his own new strategy as pointless. In an off-the-record lunch with television anchors hours before the address, he made clear in blunt terms that he was not inclined to give the speech or go to Texas, but was talked into it by advisers, according to two people briefed on the discussion who asked not to be identified sharing details. “It’s not going to change a damn thing, but I’m still doing it,” Mr. Trump said of the border visit, according to one of the people, who was in the room. The trip was merely a photo opportunity, he said. “But,” he added, gesturing at his communications aides Bill Shine, Sarah Huckabee Sanders and Kellyanne Conway, “these people behind you say it’s worth it.” Mr. Trump plans to head to the Capitol on Wednesday to attend a Senate Republican lunch and later will host congressional leaders from both parties to resume negotiations that so far have made little progress. Mr. Trump has insisted on $5.7 billion for the wall, while Ms. Pelosi said she would not give him a dollar for a wall she has called “immoral.” In a nod to Democrats, Mr. Trump spent the first half of his talk on the humanitarian situation at the border before even mentioning the wall, expressing sympathy for those victimized by human smugglers. “This is a humanitarian crisis — a crisis of the heart and a crisis of the soul,” he said. Even so, he directly took on Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer. “The only thing that is immoral is the politicians to do nothing and continue to allow more innocent people to be so horribly victimized,” he said. Mr. Trump has made the wall the singular focus of his presidency as he enters his third year in office. His promise to erect a “big, beautiful wall” along the border became perhaps the most memorable promise on the campaign trail this fall, eliciting chants from supporters of “build the wall,” and he has been frustrated by his inability to deliver on it. But his alarming description of a “crisis” at the border has raised credibility questions. While experts agree there are serious problems to address, migrant border crossings have actually been declining for nearly two decades. The majority of heroin enters the United States through legal ports of entry, not through open areas of the border. And the State Department said in a recent report that there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico. At one point in his speech, he even suggested that Democrats had signaled that they would accept his wall if redesigned. “At the request of Democrats, it will be a steel barrier rather than a concrete wall,” he said, even though Democratic leaders have made clear they oppose the barrier regardless of the material. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. Even so, Democrats, many of whom like Mr. Schumer voted in 2006 for 700 miles of fencing along the border, did not want to conduct the debate on Mr. Trump’s terms. Instead, they focused attention on the damaging effects of the shutdown, already the second longest in American history. About 800,000 government employees are either furloughed or working without pay, in addition to hundreds of thousands of contractors. House Democrats planned to approve individual spending bills this week that were intended to reopen closed departments one at a time in hopes of putting Republicans on the defensive, but Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has said he would not put any bill on the floor without Mr. Trump’s explicit support. Senate Democrats took to the floor on Tuesday to pressure Mr. McConnell and vowed to block consideration of other legislation until the government is reopened. Mr. McConnell fired back, noting the 2006 legislation. “Maybe the Democratic Party was for secure borders before they were against them,” he said. “Or maybe they’re just making it up as they go along. Or maybe they are that dead-set on opposing this particular president on any issue, for any reason, just for the sake of opposing him.” But two more Republicans, Senators Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, spoke out on Tuesday in favor of reopening the government while negotiations over border security continue. “I think we can walk and chew gum,” Ms. Murkowski told reporters. Ms. Capito expressed frustration with the shutdown and “how useless it is,” indicating that she might support reopening the government while wall talks continue. “I mean, I think I could live with that, but let’s see what he says tonight,” she said before the speech. That makes five Republican senators who have expressed such a position, which if combined with a unanimous Democratic caucus would make a majority to reopen the government if Mr. McConnell were to allow a vote. Allies of the president warned fellow Republicans to stand with Mr. Trump. “If we undercut the president, that’s the end of his presidency and the end of our party,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said on Fox News after the speech. How the number of people affected compares to different American companies and industries. The political nature of the fight was hard to miss. Just hours before he went on air, Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign sent out a fund-raising email asking supporters to raise $500,000 by the time his speech began. On the other side, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a possible candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination next year, offered his own response after Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer. For all of the pyrotechnics of competing national speeches, it seemed like a political Kabuki dance that by the end of the evening had changed no minds in Washington. Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the No. 5 House Democrat, who perhaps most succinctly summed up his party’s response: “We are not paying a $5 billion ransom note for your medieval border wall,” he wrote on Twitter, with a castle emoji. “And nothing you just said will change that cold, hard reality.” If Democrats do not approve money for the wall, Mr. Trump has threatened to declare a national emergency and proceed with construction without Congress, a move that could provoke a constitutional clash with the legislative branch over the power of the federal purse. While some legal experts said the president has a plausible case given current law, it would almost surely generate a court challenge. Even some Republicans warned against it. Senator Susan Collins of Maine said that although the law provides the president with emergency powers, “the administration should not act on a claim of dubious constitutional authority.” She added, “It should get authorization from Congress before repurposing such a significant sum of money for a border wall.” The wall is popular with Mr. Trump’s base, but the public at large holds the president responsible for the shutdown, according to polls. In a Reuters-Ipsos poll, 51 percent of respondents said that Mr. Trump “deserves most of the blame,” up four percentage points from earlier in the crisis, while 32 percent pointed the finger at congressional Democrats. Moreover, the public seems to have grown weary of the impasse. Seventy percent of registered voters in the latest The Hill-HarrisX poll favored a compromise, while just 30 percent said sticking to principles was more important than reopening the government. The president’s use of the Oval Office for the speech stirred some debate, with critics asserting that a setting more typically used for occasions of war or other national security crises was being turned into a partisan platform. The subsequent joint statement by Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer was the first time opposition leaders were given national airtime to respond to a president in the Oval Office. Not counting speeches to Congress, Mr. Trump had made only five formal addresses to the nation before Tuesday night, three of them in prime time and none from the Oval Office, according to Mark Knoller, a longtime CBS News journalist who tracks recent presidential history. Mr. Trump’s previous prime-time speeches were to introduce his two Supreme Court nominations and to announce his decision to send more troops to Afghanistan. Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman, Julie Hirschfeld Davis, Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Michael Tackett, Emily Cochrane and Catie Edmondson from Washington, and Michael M. Grynbaum from New York. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.    ", "id": "5c355e203a125f5075c03734", "date": "2019-01-09T02:36:15+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Congress to Sue to Block Trump Border Wall Funding Action: Pelosi", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — The U.S. House of Representatives will sue to block President Donald Trump's transfer of money to pay for a border wall along the border with Mexico, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. The Republican president in February declared a national emergency at the border to secure the money that Congress refused to give him for the wall. \"The President's action clearly violates the Appropriations Clause by stealing from appropriated funds, an action that was not authorized by constitutional or statutory authority,\" Pelosi, the top Democrat in Congress, said in a statement. She said a congressional legal advisory group voted to authorize the lawsuit.  In a stinging rebuke, the Democratic-controlled House passed legislation to terminate the emergency Trump declared at the U.S.-Mexico border but Trump issued the first veto of his presidency in March to block that measure. \"The House will once again defend our Democracy and our Constitution, this time in the courts,\" Pelosi said in a statement. \"No one is above the law or the Constitution, not even the President.\" U.S. Attorney General William Barr said the president’s emergency declaration was legal.  (Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and James Dalgleish)", "id": "5ca63f1449f0eacbf1f80efe", "date": "2019-04-04T17:28:25+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Takes Border Wall Fight to El Paso; Beto O’Rourke Fires Back", "full_text": " EL PASO — President Trump came to this bustling border city on Monday to rally support for his wall with Mexico. But he was met by El Paso’s favorite son, Beto O’Rourke, who denounced Mr. Trump’s claim that walls reduce violent crime and led the city’s residents in his own boisterous show of opposition. The dueling rallies, just across the Rio Grande from Mexico, offered a vivid snapshot of the national debate over immigration, as well as a tantalizing early glimpse of the rivalry between Mr. Trump and Mr. O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman who is now considering a challenge to the president in 2020. As he mulls a run for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. O’Rourke has seized on immigration as a defining issue. With a flair for political theater that even Mr. Trump took note of, Mr. O’Rourke addressed a crowd less than a mile from the El Paso County Coliseum, where the president spoke to thousands of cheering supporters. “We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls,” Mr. O’Rourke said, speaking to supporters within earshot of Mr. Trump’s rally. “We have so much to give, so much to show the rest of the country.” Inside the arena, Mr. Trump was flanked by banners that said, “Finish the Wall,” and he faced a sea of red and blue signs urging him to “Build the Wall.” “We need the wall, and it has to be built,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “Today we started building the big beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande.” Mr. Trump’s rally, his first since an acrimonious debate over funding of the wall shut down the government, came as negotiators in Washington appeared to reach a deal, potentially averting another shutdown. The president said he was told about the agreement just before taking the stage. “We probably have some good news,” Mr. Trump said, almost grudgingly, before adding, “I don’t even want to hear about it.” In an interview with Laura Ingraham of Fox News that aired at the end of the rally, Mr. Trump seemed more concerned with talking about the number of supporters in the crowd on Monday night than about an update on negotiations with Congress. The president said he had had the option of receiving a briefing on the negotiations or going on camera. “It was between the deal and you, and I had to choose you,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re talking, and we’ll see what happens.” The president’s choice of El Paso to make his argument was curious on several grounds. Violent crime actually declined for years in this vibrant immigrant city across the river from Ciudad Juárez, Mexico, before the Army Corps of Engineers began building a fence in 2008. It rose during the two years before and after the barrier was constructed. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] A Democratic stronghold in a mostly Republican state, El Paso has long been one of the safer cities of its size in the United States — a trend that local law enforcement officials attribute to the residents and community policing, not to the border fence. Still, if Mr. Trump wanted to force the debate with Democrats, he could hardly have chosen a better place. The presence of Mr. O’Rourke, who represented the city in Congress before he gave up his House seat to run unsuccessfully for the Senate, guaranteed the president the kind of confrontation he relishes, even if the two men did not come face to face. Mr. Trump lost little time in ridiculing Mr. O’Rourke, describing him as “a young man who’s got very little going for himself, except he’s got a good first name.” “He’s supposed to win in order to run,” the president added. “Beto was defeated.” Mr. Trump’s discursive style delighted his crowd, though protesters heckled him more frequently than at other rallies since he became president. After one protester was escorted out of the arena to a chorus of boos from the crowd, the president asked, “Is there any place that’s more fun to be than a Trump rally?” Mr. Trump has insisted that El Paso was an example of why a wall is necessary. “Walls work,” he said, repeating his assertion that the crime rate went down in El Paso after the border wall was built. “Thanks to a border wall with Mexico,” he said, El Paso is “one of America’s safest cities.” Mr. O’Rourke debunked that claim on Friday in a lengthy post on the website Medium, in which he also tried to set out an alternative blueprint for overhauling the nation’s immigration laws. El Paso’s success, he said, repudiated Mr. Trump’s call for a border wall. “He will promise a wall and will repeat his lies about the dangers that immigrants pose,” Mr. O’Rourke said of the president. Mr. O’Rourke has spotlighted his heavily Latino hometown on Facebook and on other social media sites as an example of what works in immigration policy. A short walk from the coliseum, protesters gathered to march in a show of dissent against the president. Many held signs criticizing Mr. Trump; buttons, signs and stickers proclaiming “Beto 2020” could be seen throughout the crowd. “Trump is an insult to my proud military family,” said Isabel Harris, 60, an immigrant from Mexico who held a sign honoring her son Martin Ferrufino, 32, a disabled veteran of the Iraq war. Ms. Harris said Mr. Trump’s efforts to curb immigration was an affront to her son, who crossed the border illegally as a child. Later, he attended high school in El Paso and joined the Army. “My son sacrificed for this country, and this is how he’s treated? How we are treated?” Ms. Harris said in Spanish. Nearby, two El Paso-born brothers, Adam and Andrew Peña, also joined the protest against Mr. Trump. “Trump thinks he can rule us by fear,” said Adam Peña, 31, a lawyer who lives in San Diego and traveled to El Paso to voice his opposition. “I’m here to prove him wrong.” Mr. Trump got the idea to focus on El Paso from an exchange with the Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, who told him the wall drastically reduced the city’s crime rate and therefore served as a persuasive argument for building one along more of the southwestern border. “After that fence went up and separated Juárez, which still has an extremely high crime rate, the crime rates in El Paso are now some of the lowest in the country,” Mr. Paxton said. “So we know it works.” While it is true that Juárez has a much higher crime rate than El Paso — and while the fence did cut down on illegal crossings — the rest of his statement is, at best, highly misleading. The El Paso Times, which analyzed three decades of statistics from the F.B.I. and the local police, found that crime peaked in 1993, with more than 6,500 violent crimes recorded. It then dropped by 34 percent over the next 13 years. The crime rate then increased by 17 percent from 2006 to 2011. Construction of the wall began in 2008, under President George W. Bush, and was completed in mid-2009, during the Obama administration. Crime has ebbed and flowed within a fairly narrow band since then. Local officials, including Mayor Dee Margo, a Republican, have spoken out against Mr. Trump’s claims. Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who recently won Mr. O’Rourke’s former seat, has demanded that the president apologize and meet with migrant families seeking asylum in the United States. Among lawmakers who represent border districts, there is remarkably little support for a wall. Yet Mr. Trump has been undeterred. He repeated grisly stories of violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants — never mind that the crime rate among immigrants is no higher than among native-born residents. He said a wall would stem the flow of deadly opioids and other illicit drugs into the United States — another dubious assertion, given that most drugs arrive at legal ports of entry. Mr. Trump’s aides are trying to build momentum after last week’s State of the Union address, which they believe was well received by his political base. Unlike some of his predecessors, the president did not immediately leave on a road trip to sell the messages in the address. But he has been eager to return to rallies, which energize him and filled up his calendar before the midterm elections. Mr. Trump dismissed those who disputed his facts about the wall, saying the mayor of El Paso was “full of crap,” even if he was a Republican. “People of El Paso,” he asked, “am I right?” Emily Cochrane and Katie Rogers contributed reporting from Washington. OpinionRichard Parker ", "id": "5c61e8423a125f5075c09248", "date": "2019-02-11T21:23:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Fact Check: Trump’s Tweet on Border Walls in Europe", "full_text": " President Trump said that border walls were going up around the world and that European walls built since 2015 were considered “close to 100% successful.”  LONDON — In an apparent effort to bolster his case for a wall along the Mexican border, President Trump pointed on Wednesday to examples of walls going up around the world, especially barriers built in Europe, as proof that they work. Here’s an assessment of those claims. What Was Said  “There are now 77 major or significant Walls built around the world, with 45 countries planning or building Walls. Over 800 miles of Walls have been built in Europe since only 2015. They have all been recognized as close to 100% successful.”  There are now 77 major or significant Walls built around the world, with 45 countries planning or building Walls. Over 800 miles of Walls have been built in Europe since only 2015. They have all been recognized as close to 100% successful. Stop the crime at our Southern Border! While governments around the world have built or planned to build 77 walls, about seven such barriers are not expected to materialize anytime soon, said Elisabeth Vallet, a researcher at the University of Quebec in Montreal who keeps a tally of such construction.  Seventy walls is closer to the truth, she said.  Europe has built about 1,000 kilometers, or just over 620 miles, of walls since 2015, Ms. Vallet said.  The White House did not respond to questions about the source of the numbers the president cited in his tweet. Some observers on social media speculated that he had been watching a report on Fox Business that examined the issue the night before. What Mr. Trump may think of as a “big, beautiful wall,” whether made of concrete or steel slats, would not fit the definition in Europe. Most of the walls he referred to on the Continent are, in fact, different styles of fences with masonry foundations.  And not all of them were designed with migration in mind.  Countries like Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, Hungary and Slovenia have built walls since 2015 to quell the flow of migrants arriving mainly from the Middle East via the Balkan Route.  But Ukraine and the Baltic States that share borders with Russia have started raising barriers to mark their territories in response to perceived threats of invasion from their larger neighbor.  “Almost a third of the walls in the world are designed to keep the neighbor out,” Ms. Vallet said.  Much like the desert terrain along the United States border with Mexico, the perilous seas, not walls, have been the main obstacle for people trying to get to Europe.  The Continent has gone beyond building walls to impede the arrival of undocumented migrants. Frontex, the European Union’s border agency, and national governments raised a security apparatus that is often referred to as Fortress Europe. It includes naval patrols and surveillance on the Mediterranean, where most migrants try to cross into Europe. European governments work with countries like Libya, Morocco and Turkey to try to deter migrants from attempting deadly sea crossings.  Last year, an estimated 150,000 illegal crossings were detected on the external borders of the European Union, according to Frontex. (The same person may attempt the crossing and be counted in different locations.) This was 25 percent less than in 2017, and the lowest level in five years. Still, far-right politicians like Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary have promoted the specter of an impending migration crisis, accompanied by xenophobic rhetoric, to justify funds for border protection.  [Read more about whether Europe is still facing a migration crisis.] “The boosting and militarization of border security has led to a higher death toll for forcibly displaced persons,” according to a report released in May by the Transnational Institute, a research and advocacy institute. In another report on border walls, researchers at the institute looked at maritime barriers in the Mediterranean and considered them as significant or more significant than land barriers on the European continent.  Walls have worked for politicians who used them as a means to mobilize supporters, but not to deal with the problem of migration, Nick Buxton, a researcher with the institute, said by phone.  “You can build more and more walls until you’re a completely walled society, but all you’re doing is making it more and more dangerous,” he said. “People will find ways to cross walls.”  The fence around the entrance of the tunnel providing the only land access to Britain from Continental Europe has failed to deter illegal crossings. Last year, about 500 migrants, 10 times as many as in 2017, attempted to cross the perilous waters of the English Channel from France. More than half completed the journey. Reports of smugglers operating around most of these points of access suggest to researchers that walls alone cannot solve the problem.  “Every time you have a border fence and no public policy that is dealing with the root problem, it is as if you were inviting organized crime to the table,” Ms. Vallet said.  Ms. Vallet said she could not think of historical examples of walls that work.  She noted that both the Great Wall of China and the Maginot Line in France — each built at great expense — ultimately failed to stop invaders. ", "id": "5c406eed3a125f5075c04e53", "date": "2019-01-17T12:02:51+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Will Make Broad-Based Public Appeal for Border Wall", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump unleashed an offensive on Monday to persuade Americans that a “humanitarian and security crisis” on the southern border must be addressed before a government shutdown can end, announcing a prime-time address for Tuesday and a trip to the border later in the week. Vice President Mike Pence briefed reporters on the status of negotiations in a hastily arranged session, part of an orchestrated effort to sway balking Democrats who say the government should reopen while they wrangle over Mr. Trump’s demand for $5.7 billion to begin his border wall. The shutdown, heading into Day 18, has become a critical test for Mr. Trump, who campaigned as a master negotiator and deal maker but so far has achieved virtually no agreements with Democrats. Already, it is the second-longest breakdown in government funding in the nation’s history, affecting about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will miss their first paycheck this week. The president has offered little to his Democratic adversaries to lure them to the table. Now, he will try to use a broad-based public appeal to raise the pressure. Senate Democrats, for their part, were moving to halt legislation to pressure Republicans to reopen the government, starting Tuesday. And late Monday, the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate released a joint statement demanding equal television time. “Democrats must immediately be given equal airtime,” said the leaders, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York. They said that “if his past statements are any indication,” Mr. Trump’s address “will be full of malice and misinformation.” The vice president, while conceding that no progress was made in weekend negotiations with senior Democratic staff members, said Democrats “did not dispute our facts” about what he called a “humanitarian and security crisis.” Democrats and immigration advocates have argued that the administration has vastly overstated the scope of the border situation. Democrats said Mr. Pence appeared to be misrepresenting their position. While they agreed there was a crisis at the border, one senior Senate Democratic official said, they see it as a humanitarian rather than national security issue. As such, Democrats view Mr. Trump’s proposed wall as an expensive and pointless response that does nothing to address the needs on the ground. Several aides briefed on the weekend negotiations said the White House appeared eager to promote agreement on almost anything in lieu of any real progress between the two sides. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. That has led Mr. Trump to consider using a president’s “emergency powers” to order that the wall be built. But Mr. Pence said the White House was bargaining in good faith. The administration has now provided Democrats details they were seeking about how any border security money would be spent, and officials have incorporated at least one Democratic idea, to allow migrant children seeking asylum to apply in their home countries rather than make a treacherous journey to the United States border. “The question I have is: When are the Democrats going to start negotiating?” Mr. Pence said. The administration’s credibility continues to suffer, as Democrats call out Mr. Trump for falsehoods about the crisis, such as his assertion that former presidents had told him privately that they should have built the wall. On Monday, former President Jimmy Carter joined the list of presidents who said they had never discussed a border wall with Mr. Trump. With talks to end the shutdown at a standstill, Mr. Pence said the president had directed the Office of Management and Budget to take steps to “mitigate” its effects, including an order to the Internal Revenue Service to issue tax refunds. Under previous shutdown plans — and interpretations of federal law — the I.R.S. was prohibited from dispensing tax refunds when Congress had not approved money to fund the Treasury Department, as is the case now. On Capitol Hill, Democrats tried to use leverage of their own to force Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, to come to the table and pressure Mr. Trump. On Monday, Democrats said they would vote against advancing a package of bipartisan Middle East policy bills slated for consideration this week unless Republicans allowed a vote on bills to reopen shuttered federal departments already passed by the House — a decision that could scuttle its prospects if Democrats stick together. Senate Democrats did not indicate whether they are ready to block other bills, but their position raised the prospect that a significant portion of the chamber’s work could halt until the Senate gets to vote to reopen the parts of the government now closed. The House, under Ms. Pelosi, passed a package of bills on Thursday, the day Democrats took control of the chamber, to reopen the one-quarter of the government without funding Mr. Trump’s wall. But Mr. McConnell has refused to consider them, insisting that he will not bring up any legislation that does not have Mr. Trump’s explicit support. “Unfortunately, President Trump keeps rejecting the bipartisan House-passed bills, which have already received strong bipartisan support in the Senate, to reopen the government,” Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer wrote. “Instead, he is still demanding that American taxpayers pay at least $5.7 billion for his wall, which can’t pass either chamber of Congress and of course Mexico is not paying for.” It is unclear what effect the Democratic screw tightening will have on Mr. McConnell, a political tactician who sees little benefit in entering the shutdown fray. Over the past two decades, there were large declines in apprehensions along the southwestern border with Mexico. In April 2017, apprehensions hit the lowest point over that time period, and in 2018 they have since increased to levels similar to those under President Barack Obama. Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by month Obama 34,647 Bush Average per month: 81,588 Trump 28,869 150,000 100,000 50,000 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 Apprehensions at the  southwestern border, by month Trump 28,869 Obama 34,647 Bush 81,588  Average per month  150,000 100,000 50,000 2001 2005 2009 2013 2017 Source: U.S. Customs and Border Protection Republicans in the chamber turned the blame around on Democrats. “If it’s all about defeating President Trump and embarrassing him politically, which seems to be the focus of Ms. Pelosi and Senator Schumer, then obviously we’re not going to get a deal anytime soon,” said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. Democrats in the House were preparing their own steps, intended to pull more moderate Republicans to their position. The Rules Committee will start the process of passing individual appropriations bills to reopen the government on Tuesday, beginning with legislation that would fund the Treasury Department, including the I.R.S. Mr. Trump’s request that the major networks broadcast his speech live set off a day of tense deliberations at ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox. By Monday evening, they had all agreed to broadcast the president’s address live at 9 p.m. Eastern. Cable news channels, including CNN and Fox News, will also carry the speech. Some journalists worry that handing Mr. Trump a chunk of network prime time could allow the president to assert falsehoods to tens of millions of viewers. But several network producers said privately on Monday that they were uncomfortable turning down the president amid a national event affecting millions like the government shutdown. Declining Mr. Trump’s request could also open the networks to accusations of partisan bias. Ted Koppel, the veteran ABC anchor, said in an interview that given that Mr. Trump had not previously requested time for an Oval Office speech, the networks ought to give him “the benefit of the doubt.” “When the president of the United States asks for airtime, you’ve got to do it,” Mr. Koppel said. “If what he has to say is clearly just in his self-interest and does not address the greater national interest, then the next time the White House comes around, I might not be inclined to offer it.” In the recent past, White House requests to interrupt prime-time programming on the nation’s broadcast networks were rare and usually reserved for moments of national import, like the death of Osama bin Laden, and networks usually granted the requests. There have been instances, however, where such requests were rejected by producers as insufficiently newsworthy. In 2014, the networks declined a request from the Obama administration to air his speech about using executive action to change immigration policy. The acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, has for days told other White House officials that a presidential address would be a way for Mr. Trump to try to recast the narrative around the shutdown fight. On Monday, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, announced Mr. Trump’s plans to travel Thursday to the border, which would be the 20th day of the partial government shutdown if an agreement between Congress and the White House is not reached.  Maggie Haberman and Michael Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Eileen Sullivan from Washington. Follow Michael Tackett and Nicholas Fandos on Twitter: @tackettdc and @npfandos.    ", "id": "5c3391433a125f5075c0333a", "date": "2019-01-07T17:49:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Touts Rising U.S. Border 'Wall,' Proposes Economic Penalty on Mexico", "full_text": " CALEXICO, Calif. — President Donald Trump on Friday promised approximately 450 miles (725 km) of new \"wall\" along the southern U.S. border, after threatening to slap Mexico with an unspecified economic penalty to crack down on what he describes as a crisis of undocumented immigration and drug trafficking. Referring to a \"colossal surge\" of immigrants, Trump convened a discussion with immigration officials and local leaders in Calexico on the U.S.-Mexico border just north of the much larger city of Mexicali. Before touring a just completed 30-foot (9 meter) tall, 2.2 mile (3.5 km) barrier at Calexico, Trump said more U.S. military resources will be dispatched to the border. \"Our country is full,\" Trump said in a warning to migrants. \"Can't take you anymore. The Republican president's latest pronouncements, including a threat to impose auto tariffs on Mexico, are in response to a rising number of migrants, many of them families with children, traveling northward from Central America through Mexico and to the U.S. border. During Friday's discussion in Calexico, Trump was handed a diamond-shaped piece of steel slate - the material used to construct barriers along the border. Lt. Gen. Todd Semonite of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers said that by the end of next year - just after the November 2020 presidential election - about 450 miles (725 km) of new barrier will be completed. Border officials have said they need 722 miles (1,162 km) of new or replacement barriers. Trump is counting on seizing funds from other federal accounts and shifting them for the construction, a move being challenged in federal court because Congress has not given approval. Democrats generally oppose Trump's wall proposal, suggesting instead other types of enhanced border security that they argue would be more effective and less costly. Hammering on a favorite theme, Trump earlier on Friday said he was considering imposing an unspecified economic penalty on Mexico unless it helps alleviate the United States' drug and immigrant flows. Although Trump has several times linked the issues of illegal immigration and drug smuggling as he tries to tighten border security, much of the drug trade is not carried out by migrants but by professional crime gangs that send narcotics to the United States in vehicles through official ports of entry. Praising Mexico for moving recently against drug traffickers, Trump said, \"If they continue that, everything will be fine. If they don't we're going to tariff their cars at 25 percent.\" \"Also, I'm looking at an economic penalty for all of the drugs that are coming in through the southern border and killing our people,\" Trump told reporters in Washington before departing for southern California. TRUMP THREATS Trump said the drug-related tariff would supplant provisions of a trade deal, the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, known as USMCA, which has not been approved by Congress. In a Twitter post on Friday morning, Trump repeated a threat to close the border if Mexico \"stops apprehending and bringing the illegals back to where they came from...\" \"I am looking at an economic penalty for the 500 Billion Dollars in illegal DRUGS that are shipped and smuggled through Mexico and across our Southern Border. Over 100,00 Americans die each year, sooo many families destroyed!\" the president tweeted. It was not immediately clear what other penalties he was considering. The White House did not respond to a request for elaboration. It also was unclear where Trump got the $500 billion figure. Mike Vigil, a former chief of international operations for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, said the amount of drugs smuggled into the United States annually was probably in the range of $50-$60 billion. He emphasized that it was fueled by U.S. demand. \"He's blaming Mexico for our drug problem,\" Vigil said, adding that his words could hurt bilateral cooperation in battling drug-trafficking. \"The president should focus on reducing the demand and facilitating drug treatment centers here in the United States,\" he added.  In recent days, Mexico has taken a more rigorous approach to interviewing and registering immigrants from Central America, Haiti and Cuba, according to officials. Previously, the Mexican government freely handed out humanitarian visas with the goal of allowing people to stay and work legally in Mexico. But it backed away from that policy after a surge in those requesting the documents and amid criticism from Washington. On Thursday, a Mexican federal police plane flew dozens of Haitians home. On Friday, the Migration Institute said on Twitter that 57 Cubans were sent back to Cuba by plane in the morning. More than 60 Cubans were flown home last week. Meanwhile, 20 states have filed a motion to block Trump's attempts to divert federal funds through an emergency declaration, New York Attorney General Letitia James, a Democrat, said on Friday. The U.S. House of Representatives on Friday also filed a lawsuit challenging Trump's ability to seize the funds, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, also a Democrat, said.  (Reporting by Roberta Rampton; additional reporting by Doina Chiacu, Steve Holland, Frank Jack Daniel, Lizbeth Diaz and Dave Graham; Writing by Richard Cowan; Editing by Kevin Drawbaugh, Alistair Bell and Grant McCool)", "id": "5ca7671a49f0eacbf1f812b9", "date": "2019-04-05T14:31:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Forget Trump’s Border Wall. Let’s Build F.D.R.’s International Park.", "full_text": " A joint U.S.-Mexico park along the Rio Grande would send a message of cooperation when the loudest words are of division.  Mr. Reicher was a member of the first reported expedition to navigate the 1,800-mile-plus Rio Grande.  Nearly 75 years ago, an American president was eyeing a grand project along our southern border, not to divide the United States and Mexico but to bring the two nations together. On June 12, 1944, a week after D-Day, President Franklin Roosevelt signed legislation establishing Big Bend National Park, almost a million acres along the Rio Grande in West Texas.  He followed up with a grand challenge to President Manuel Ávila Camacho of Mexico: “I do not believe that this undertaking in the Big Bend will be complete until the entire park area in this region on both sides of the Rio Grande forms one great international park.” Mr. Camacho agreed. Still, the building of a great international park along our southern border, rather than a grim medieval wall, remains an elusive goal. But if there ever was a moment for it, this is it, and particularly in a place where time and the flowing river have already carved truly great walls along thousand-foot-deep canyons.  There was a compelling precedent for President Roosevelt’s idea. In 1932, the United States and Canada joined Glacier National Park and Waterton Lakes National Park to form the world’s first international peace park, an important example globally of cross-border collaboration. Following this lead, in 1936 the United States and Mexico established a commission to begin work on Big Bend International Park.  With the ending of the war, President Harry Truman took up his predecessor’s cause, writing President Camacho to reiterate American interest in the binational park. But Mr. Camacho’s tenure ended in 1946, President Truman had bigger challenges, and the idea sputtered for decades. In 1977, I was a member of the first reported expedition to navigate the entire 1,800-mile-plus Rio Grande. The highlight of the journey, sponsored by the National Geographic Society and Dartmouth’s Ledyard Canoe Club, was Big Bend, where an international border neatly drawn on a map dissolves into the muddy waters of the Rio Grande. Etched in my memory are sweeping cactus-filled deserts, soaring pine-dotted peaks and a lone Mexican cowboy riding across the river to round up a stray. Big Bend continued to draw presidential attention, including from President Ronald Reagan and President Miguel de la Madrid Hurtado. They signed an agreement in 1983 “for protection, improvement and conservation” of the border area. In 1994 Mexico established the Maderas del Carmen protected area, and in 2000 a Mexican corporation, Cemex, conserved additional borderlands that helped re-establish bighorn sheep and black bears. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] These protected areas on both sides of the Rio Grande could form the backbone of a new international park that would recognize them as a single ecosystem and provide for collaborative management by both countries. United States Black Gap Wildlife Management Area Rio Grande RIO GRANDE  WILD AND  SCENIC RIVER PARK Big Bend Ranch State Park Big Bend National Park Cañon de Santa Elena Maderas del Carmen protected area  Ocampo 400 miles Mexico TEXAS Detail  area MEXICO 20 miles Black Gap Wildlife Management Area United States Rio Grande RIO GRANDE  WILD AND SCENIC RIVER PARK Big Bend Ranch State Park Big Bend National Park Cañon de Santa Elena Maderas del Carmen protected area  Ocampo 400 miles TEXAS Mexico Detail  area MEXICO 20 miles About a decade later, President Barack Obama and President Felipe Calderón signaled their interest in joint protection of Big Bend, and American and Mexican officials developed a plan for “protection and preservation” of the transboundary region. Nothing came of it in Congress. Nevertheless, after decades of work, more than three million contiguous acres — substantially larger than Yellowstone National Park — are now protected on both sides of the Rio Grande, along with more than 250 miles of river frontage. With the 2016 election, the chant to “build that wall” seemed to drown everything else. But interest in the Roosevelt idea is still alive on both sides of the river, even as President Trump seeks billions more for his wall. So what’s the case for an international park? The pitched battle over Mr. Trump’s wall has focused on border security and immigration policy. These are critical issues, with lives at stake. But in the midst of this heated dispute, what if we could actually strengthen day-to-day relationships among people living on both sides of the border, without seizing any private land, and also enhance security in the process? An international park would send a strong message of cooperation and hope at a moment when the loudest words are about division and despair. A jointly managed park would recognize the region as a single ecosystem and encourage collaboration by focusing the two nations on shared environmental and climate challenges along the border, like droughts, floods and wildfires, and invasive plants and endangered species. Joint efforts at habitat restoration and water conservation would increase river flows, discourage illegal crossings and support agriculture. And the park would increase tourism, helping struggling people on both sides of the river. The park would be managed like its United States-Canadian counterpart, with the United States and Mexico retaining separate authority over their respective lands and park visitors carrying required documents as they cross from one side to the other. At the same time, park managers, with high-level support from both Washington and Mexico City, could collaborate on everything from search and rescue and wildlife protection to scientific research and native plant restoration. Republicans have a strong tradition, extending back to Teddy Roosevelt, of supporting parks and international conservation. Republicans and Democrats recently came together in overwhelming numbers in Congress to approve a sweeping land conservation bill. Protecting natural areas is not an alien concept for Republicans, even these days. On the Democratic side, Senator Tom Udall of New Mexico is a strong supporter of the idea. His father, Stewart, was instrumental in enacting the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act as head of the Interior Department in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. That law protects 196 miles of the Rio Grande in Texas and 68 miles in New Mexico. Across the river, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador sees Mr. Trump’s wall as “an attempt to strong-arm and humiliate Mexico.” But he also understands that “Mexico and the U.S. are bound not only because of the common border, but by a shared culture and history.” A great international park that connects rather than divides our two nations would honor that relationship and stimulate important collaboration at a perilous time. Franklin Roosevelt would be pleased. Dan W. Reicher, a Stanford lecturer and research fellow and board member of the conservation group American Rivers, was an assistant secretary of energy in the Clinton administration and director of climate and energy initiatives at Google. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c8a267f49f0eacbf105cfc5", "date": "2019-03-14T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Twenty States File Motion to Block Trump Border Wall Funding: N.Y. Attorney General", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Twenty U.S. states have filed a motion to block President Donald Trump's method of funding a border wall by diverting federal funds through a national emergency declaration, the New York state attorney general said on Friday. \"This wall is unnecessary, and an abuse of power that will take away resources that could be used to help Americans across our nation,\" New York Attorney General Letitia James said on Twitter. The states filed a lawsuit in February after Trump declared a national emergency to help build a border wall that was a signature of his 2016 campaign for president. The motion for a preliminary injunction to block Trump's effort that was filed late Thursday formalized that request. Trump's order would allow him to spend money on the wall that Congress appropriated for other purposes. Congress declined to fulfill his request for $5.7 billion to help build the wall this year.  (Reporting by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Jeffrey Benkoe)", "id": "5ca7666a49f0eacbf1f812b6", "date": "2019-04-05T14:28:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "How the Border Wall Is Boxing Trump In", "full_text": " News Analysis WASHINGTON — Before it became the chief sticking point in a government shutdown drama that threatens to consume his presidency at a critical moment, President Trump’s promise to build a wall on the southwestern border was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate. As Mr. Trump began exploring a presidential run in 2014, his political advisers landed on the idea of a border wall as a mnemonic device of sorts, a way to make sure their candidate — who hated reading from a script but loved boasting about himself and his talents as a builder — would remember to talk about getting tough on immigration, which was to be a signature issue in his nascent campaign. “How do we get him to continue to talk about immigration?” Sam Nunberg, one of Mr. Trump’s early political advisers, recalled telling Roger J. Stone Jr., another adviser. “We’re going to get him to talk about he’s going to build a wall.” Talk Mr. Trump did, and the line drew rapturous cheers from conservative audiences, thrilling the candidate and soon becoming a staple of campaign speeches. Chants of “Build the wall!” echoed through arenas throughout the country. Now, Mr. Trump’s fixation with a border wall — the material embodiment of his keep-them-out immigration agenda — has run headlong into the new realities of divided government, pitting him against Democrats who reject the idea out of hand. The impasse is particularly remarkable given that even some immigration hard-liners do not regard the wall as their highest priority and fear that Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with it will prompt him to cut a deal that trades a relatively ineffectual measure for major concessions on immigration. “I’ve always thought it created a danger that he would trade almost anything in order to get the wall — I think that’s still a potential danger,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that argues for less immigration. “I’m still worried about that now.” That fear has been realized at times when Mr. Trump has explored a deal with Democrats on granting permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. The president has always walked away at the last moment from committing to preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, but on Friday, FAIR, an anti-immigration group, warned him again that it would be a mistake. To many conservative activists who have pressed for decades for sharp reductions in both illegal and legal immigration — and some of the Republican lawmakers who are allied with them — a physical barrier on the border with Mexico is barely relevant, little more than a footnote to a long list of policy changes they believe are needed to fix a broken system. The disconnect is at the heart of the dilemma facing Mr. Trump as he labors to find a way out of an impasse that has shuttered large parts of the government and cost 800,000 federal employees their pay. Having spent more than four years — first as a candidate and then as president — whipping his core supporters into a frenzy over the idea of building a border wall, Mr. Trump finds himself in a political box of his own making. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. In transforming the wall into a powerful emblem of his anti-immigration message, Mr. Trump has made the proposal politically untouchable for Democrats, who have steadfastly refused to fund it, complicating the chances of any compromise. “As a messaging strategy, it was pretty successful,” Mr. Krikorian said. “The problem is, you got elected; now what do you do? Having made it his signature issue, Trump handed the Democrats a weapon against him.” The dynamic has been on vivid display this past week as Mr. Trump has argued that there can be no deal to reopen the government unless his wall is paid for, while Democrats, now in control of the House, have refused in ever sharper terms. “A wall is an immorality — it’s not who we are as a nation,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. “This is not a wall between Mexico and the United States that the president is creating here; it’s a wall between reality and his constituents, his supporters.” Last month, in private comments to Democratic lawmakers after an Oval Office confrontation with Mr. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said the wall was “like a manhood thing for him.” Yet it has also become an outsize symbol in the other direction for Democrats, many of whom supported at least some sort of barrier along the border in the past but now cast Mr. Trump’s wall as a travesty. Sixty-four Democrats in the House and 26 in the Senate voted in 2006 for the Secure Fence Act, which provided for hundreds of miles of fencing along the border. Among them were Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Chuck Schumer. “The only things that have changed is the situation at the border is worse and Donald Trump got elected,” said Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor. Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump had become so committed to a wall because it would not only prevent the entry of many illegal immigrants and stem the flow of drugs, but also discourage migrants from coming in the first place. “The reason he’s focused on the wall is he thinks you need a very robust physical barrier at the border that you can’t climb over, slide under, drive through or walk around,” she said. “He believes it’s got to be something that’s a deterrent that stops people from taking these perilous journeys.” Beyond the symbolism, Democrats now argue that a wall is an expensive and ineffective means of curbing illegal immigration. The majority of undocumented immigrants are people who overstay visas, not people who sneak across the border. A report released in March by Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security Committee found that Border Patrol agents on the front lines said they needed more technology and additional personnel to curb illegal immigration and drug traffic, with less than one half of one percent mentioning a wall. Mr. Schumer, now the Senate Democratic leader, has insisted for two years that any spending agreements contain language barring federal money for Mr. Trump’s wall. Republican leaders went along each time, even as the president became increasingly irate, once coming close to vetoing a spending package on the day of the White House signing ceremony. While most Republicans refuse to say so publicly for fear of angering Mr. Trump, many share the view that the wall is only a piece — and nowhere near the most important one — of a broader set of actions needed to overhaul the immigration system, including cuts to legal immigration, tighter standards for granting asylum and better enforcement. Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trump’s acting chief of staff, gave voice to that position in 2015, when he was a congressman from South Carolina, telling a local radio station that Mr. Trump, at the time a presidential candidate, had an overly simplistic view of tackling immigration. “The fence is an easy thing to sell politically,” Mr. Mulvaney said then. “It’s an easy thing for someone who doesn’t follow the issue very closely to say, ‘Oh, well, that will just solve everything, build the fence.’ The fence doesn’t solve the problem.” “Just to say ‘build the darn fence’ and have that be the end of an immigration discussion is absurd and almost childish,” Mr. Mulvaney said. John F. Kelly, Mr. Trump’s former chief of staff, enraged Mr. Trump last year when he privately told a group of Democratic lawmakers that the president had not been “fully informed” when he proposed a border wall during his campaign, and had since “evolved” under Mr. Kelly’s tutelage. “The Wall is the Wall,” the president responded in an angry tweet contradicting his top aide. “To be honest, it’s not a wall,” Mr. Kelly said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times last month as he prepared to leave the White House, adding that the administration had abandoned the idea of a “solid concrete wall early on.” His comments prompted another irate tweet from Mr. Trump. “An all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED,” he wrote. Mr. Trump himself has at other times said he is not necessarily wedded to a concrete wall but open to different forms of barriers at different points along the border, including steel slats. “I never said, ‘I’m going to build a concrete” wall, he said on Friday, rewriting history. “I said I’m going to build a wall.” NumbersUSA, another conservative group that presses for stricter immigration policies, circulated an article last month suggesting that Mr. Trump drop his wall demand in favor of a plan to mandate that all employers use E-Verify, an electronic system that checks immigration status for prospective employees. The wall “has sucked political capital from the pursuit of other, and arguably better, means to deter illegal immigrants,” wrote Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute. Yet Mr. Trump has tethered himself to the wall and shows no sign of letting go. Ann Coulter, who along with Rush Limbaugh, Matt Drudge and other conservative commentators has pressed Mr. Trump to live up to his campaign promise, said the focus on the wall was not to be to the exclusion of other policies aimed at stemming illegal immigration. “We want that stuff too — but we also want a wall,” she said in an email on Friday. “The chant at every campaign rally wasn’t, ‘Enforce E-Verify!’ ‘Tax remittances!’” she added, referring to a proposal to tax cash payments sent by immigrants to their families in Mexico and Central America. Advisers said the president became absorbed by the idea of a wall because it was the most memorable and tangible promise he made while stumping for the White House in 2016. “He wants to call it a wall because that’s what he campaigned on,” said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trump’s. “He’s very obsessed about carrying out his campaign promises — I think to a degree that’s unhealthy — but that’s important to him, and that’s not a bad thing.” Mr. Ruddy and some other advisers argue that Mr. Trump has more room to maneuver than he thinks, because his base would accept his word that some form of additional security along the border was the equivalent of a wall in terms of effectiveness. “Listening to Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter on this is a mistake,” Mr. Ruddy said. “I don’t think the president’s base moves even one inch from him even if he doesn’t get a wall. They know where his heart is, they know where his mind is.” Michael D’Antonio, a biographer of Mr. Trump, said the wall appealed to the builder and brander in him. “I think he hears the beep, beep, beep of a cement truck backing up and the product being poured and the wall rising,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “He can grasp that stuff. He loves it.” It would be a presidential legacy that future generations could see and touch, an accomplishment that would last for ages. “I think he’d like it being called the Great Wall of Trump,” Mr. D’Antonio said, with a plaque to the president who built it “every mile or so.” The simplicity of the concept made it a powerful sales pitch on the campaign trail. “It’s a four-letter thing,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “It’s an idea that can be expressed in a single word, and I think that has great appeal to him as a marketer. It’s sort of ‘crooked Hillary’ or ‘lock her up,’ but it’s even better.” OpinionBruce Ackerman  ", "id": "5c30effd3a125f5075c02fbc", "date": "2019-01-05T17:57:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Key Takeaways From Trump’s Decision to Use a National Emergency to Build a Border Wall", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump has decided to roll out the big cannon. In the Rose Garden on Friday, he said he was declaring a national emergency to build a wall on the border with Mexico, using money from other federal accounts, after Congress declined to authorize sufficient funds to satisfy him in legislation that averts another government shutdown. Mr. Trump is wielding extraordinary power to get his way. Democrats strenuously dispute that there is a national security crisis on the border that warrants using the kind of presidential authority that in the past has been used for grave matters like the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Here are six takeaways from Mr. Trump’s action. Republicans in Congress, including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, were fine with the spending deal that they reached with Democrats to keep the government open. But more hard-line elements within the party scalded Mr. Trump with criticism, including the Fox host Laura Ingraham and the conservative commentator Ann Coulter. But as The New York Times reported early Friday, the president felt cornered into accepting the deal and agreed to it only with Mr. McConnell’s promise to support an emergency declaration. Still, the White House assuaged some other skeptics of the funding deal, namely Sean Hannity on Fox and the radio host Rush Limbaugh, both of whom in effect announced the president’s decision in advance and encouraged their followers to fall in line. Mr. Trump is willing to risk the blowback, even from members of his party, and a possible court defeat, if it means he can tell his core supporters that he did all he could to build the wall. Democrats cannot stop the president from issuing the declaration, but they can make it very uncomfortable for Republicans. They can vote to terminate the president’s declaration on the grounds that there is no emergency — there is strong sentiment among Democrats to do that — which would force Republicans in the Senate to make a tough vote over Mr. Trump’s extraordinary exercise of power. Already, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, has been sharply critical of the president using his authority this way, and fellow Republican Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Rand Paul of Kentucky also have been highly skeptical. Mr. Paul called it “extraconstitutional.” So the president’s action will force Republicans to decide whether to back him — and then set a precedent for a future Democratic president to use power this way — or embarrass Mr. Trump with a vote that could undo his declaration. The president could veto the resolution, and the declaration would likely remain in place because there would not be sufficient votes to override it, but his standing would be undermined. Mr. Trump has to find money from other federal programs to make up a $4 billion shortfall from his initial demand for border wall funding. He can do this by taking money from funding for projects. The declaration enables Mr. Trump to divert $3.6 billion budgeted for military construction projects, and he will also tap into $2.5 billion from counternarcotics programs and $600 million from a Treasury Department asset forfeiture fund. All told, that leaves him with about $8 billion for the wall, including the $1.375 billion authorized by Congress in the spending package that averts a government shutdown. Each of those pots of money comes with a specific constituency that authorized it in the first place, and those constituencies may not be pleased to see it used for another purpose. With this declaration, a court challenge is a near certainty. A party opposing the president will probably seek an injunction — a halt in the action — while the matter is litigated. Yet every day that the wall is not built could undermine Mr. Trump’s fundamental premise that there is an emergency at the border. The challenges are likely to be many, in jurisdictions from coast to coast, increasing the chances that new construction would not start any time soon. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has been among the few Democrats who seem to be able to stare down the president. In this case, she has offered a not-so-subtle warning about what she sees as an abuse of the emergency authority. She pointed to the mass shootings in the United States, and noted that perhaps the president should issue a national emergency about guns. That could be a mere preview of how she and the Democrats will frame the case against the president, starting with the idea that he has abused his constitutional authority. After his speech on Friday, Ms. Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, vowed to try to overturn the decision. “This is plainly a power grab by a disappointed president, who has gone outside the bounds of the law to try to get what he failed to achieve in the constitutional legislative process,” they said in a joint statement. Expect to hear a lot from Ms. Pelosi about a basic tenet of American government, that Congress is a coequal branch of government that is not cowed by presidential whim. The president’s penchant for improvisation may not have served him well. In making his case for a national emergency, Mr. Trump said that he could have waited, but he did not want to, so he declared an emergency. “I could do the wall over a longer period of time,” the president said. “I didn’t need to do this but I’d rather do it much faster.” Then he noted that he had so much money from the legislation that averted a shutdown that money was not really an issue. ”We have so much money, we don’t know what to do with it,” Mr. Trump said. “I don’t know what to do with all the money they’re giving us. It’s crazy. “ Those two admissions could be the foundation of a legal challenge to his national emergency declaration.   ", "id": "5c66c8c93a125f5075c09ea2", "date": "2019-02-15T14:10:55+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "GoFundMe to Refund Border Wall Donations After Fund-Raiser Falls Short", "full_text": " The crowdfunding platform GoFundMe said that more than $20 million in donations were slated to be refunded after a campaign to raise $1 billion for the Trump administration to build a wall on the border with Mexico had fallen well short of its goal. The fund-raising campaign, which began last month, had gone viral as President Trump’s attempt to get Congress to pay for the wall fueled a heated political dispute and resulted in a partial shutdown of the federal government. More than 325,000 donors had pledged in the GoFundMe campaign that the organizer, a veteran from Florida named Brian Kolfage, said would have been used for President Trump’s border wall. But in a note posted on the campaign’s website on Friday, Mr. Kolfage said the federal government would not be able to accept the donations “anytime soon.” Mr. Kolfage said in an interview that donating to the government would have required approval from Congress and that he knew that a Democrat-controlled House would not give its approval. Instead, Mr. Kolfage said, he has formed a Florida-based nonprofit organization called We Build the Wall that will use donations to finance a private effort to build parts of the wall where private landowners allow construction. GoFundMe donors would have to proactively choose to redirect their money to the nonprofit; otherwise, they would be refunded. Mr. Kolfage said he did not know exactly how many donors would want to redirect their money nor how many landowners would want parts of the wall constructed on their properties. “When Americans see us completing real miles of beautiful wall, we know that we will raise the many billions we need to finally secure the entire border,” Mr. Kolfage said on the updated GoFundMe campaign page. The Department of Homeland Security and the Trump administration did not respond to requests for comment on Friday evening on the possibility of a privately funded effort to build the wall. Typically, GoFundMe campaigns can still collect money even if they do not meet their goal. But Bobby Whithorne, a spokesman for GoFundMe, said in a statement on Friday that Mr. Kolfage’s original campaign page had said “If we don’t reach our goal or come significantly close we will refund every single penny” and that “100% of your donations will go to the Trump Wall. If for ANY reason we don’t reach our goal we will refund your donation.” Mr. Whithorne said that since the campaign was not going to reach the $1 billion goal, and that both GoFundMe and Mr. Kolfage had determined the money raised could not be given to the federal government, GoFundMe had contacted all donors to the original campaign about the refund. Donors can ask for a refund immediately, Mr. Whithorne said, but if they do not choose to redirect their money to the nonprofit, they will automatically receive a refund in 90 days. Immigration advocacy groups had condemned the GoFundMe campaign as a xenophobic result of fearmongering about immigrants. Some had started competing fund-raising campaigns to raise money for Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services, a Texas nonprofit known as Raices. Jonathan Ryan, president and chief executive of Raices, said that despite the change in Mr. Kolfage’s campaign, the original critiques of it still stand. “It’s a difference without a change,” Mr. Ryan said. “The wall remains the wrong direction for us as a country, something that will not help advance any of our national interests and that would only serve to further harm vulnerable refugees and immigrants seeking protection in our country.” This week, Mr. Trump appeared on television in an attempt to pressure Congress into paying for the border wall, characterizing the situation at the Mexican border as a “humanitarian crisis” that was exposing the country to crime, drugs and terrorism. Experts, however, point out that migrant border crossings have been declining over about two decades. The State Department said in a recent report that there was “no credible evidence” that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the country through Mexico. Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.   ", "id": "5c396c983a125f5075c0409c", "date": "2019-01-12T04:26:39+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Border Wall Is Out of Sync With the Southwest’s Changing Politics", "full_text": " LAS CRUCES, N.M. — In a vast congressional district of fluted mountain ranges, chile crops and oil and gas wells on the country’s southern border, New Mexico Democrats in November broke the Republican hold on a House seat that had endured for 37 years, except for a two-year break. Xochitl Torres Small, a 34-year-old water rights lawyer, won by carefully calibrating her message as a problem-solver, like several other moderate Democrats who flipped House seats nationwide last year. Though the region is 55 percent Hispanic, she did not harp on President Trump’s border wall or his incitement of fears of immigrants bringing crime and drugs. She did not need to. “In New Mexico, we experience the positions of this president a little more intimately than a lot of people,” said Jeff Steinborn, a Democratic state lawmaker from Las Cruces. “The race baiting, divisive border politics has a very human face in our community.” As Mr. Trump agreed on Friday to end the longest government shutdown on record, in the face of  some of his lowest approval ratings ever, he backed down at least temporarily from his campaign promise of a border wall. Doing so could come at a political price with his supporters. But at the same time, there already has been a toll to his party for his insistence on hundreds of miles of new border barriers. Nowhere is that clearer than in the Southwest, where growing diversity and Mr. Trump’s demeaning rhetoric about Latino migrants are pulling parts of the region from the once-firm grip of Republicans. In addition to Ms. Torres Small’s district, Democrats flipped a House seat in the midterms on the southern border in Arizona and four seats in rapidly diversifying Orange County in Southern California. CALIFORNIA ARIZONA Border districts flipped by Democrats NEW MEXICO TEXAS Dem. Rep. MEXICO GULF OF MEXICO PACIFIC OCEAN CALIF. Border districts flipped by  Democrats ARIZ. N.M. TEX. Dem. Rep. MEXICO CALIF. ARIZ. Border districts flipped by Democrats N.M. TEX. Rep. Dem. MEXICO GULF OF MEXICO PACIFIC OCEAN Source: Election results and race calls from The Associated Press In Arizona, Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat, captured a Republican-held Senate seat, while in Texas the Democratic Senate nominee, Beto O’Rourke, came closer to winning a major statewide race than any other Democrat in 20 years. Ms. Sinema won 69 percent of Latino voters and Mr. O’Rourke 64 percent, according to exit polls. Each of the nine House members whose districts touch the border from California to Texas opposes a wall as the wrong solution for border security. “The irony of the wall is it works best the further you are from the border,” said Senator Martin Heinrich, Democrat of New Mexico, the state with the highest share of Hispanics. While Mr. Heinrich glided to re-election in November, some Democrats from nearly all-white states farther north went down to defeat. “It was a huge issue in North Dakota and Montana in the Senate races,” Mr. Heinrich said. “This constant picture painted by the president of this dangerous borderlands region is so incongruous with daily life,” he added. Republican analysts play down the role of immigration and the border in the recent Democratic advances in the Southwest. Stan Barnes, a former Arizona state lawmaker and current Republican lobbyist in Phoenix, said the positions of Ms. Sinema on the border were nearly identical to those of her Trump-hugging opponent, Martha McSally. “Kyrsten Sinema, you couldn’t tell the difference between her and Martha McSally on matters of the border,” he said. “She did not run as a Democrat, she ran as an independent or an Arizonan, and did not concede one bit of being tough on illegal immigration to Martha McSally.” Demographers have long predicted the growing share of Latinos in Texas and Arizona would turn those Republican-leaning states a shade of purple or blue. Democrats’ expectations of awakening “the sleeping giant” of Latino voters have been repeatedly thwarted. But 2018 may have moved them a step closer to the future. More than one in four Latino voters said they cast a ballot in a midterm election for the first time, versus 12 percent for whites, according to the Pew Research Center. In congressional races across the country, about 69 percent voted for the Democrat. “Immigration is the big deal breaker in not voting Republican,” said Joseph Garcia, director of the Latino Public Policy Center at Arizona State University. Because Latinos are much younger on average than whites, and many are just forming a partisan preference, Mr. Garcia predicted that Mr. Trump’s policies and language about immigrants would sour them on Republicans in federal elections for years to come. “It wasn’t just the wall, it was the rhetoric over three years demonizing Latinos in general,” he said. “That has a longer-lasting effect than just this administration.” “The die has been cast in that Arizona’s future is largely Latino,” he added, “and they’re all U.S. citizens because they were born here.” The median age of Latinos in Arizona is 26, and for non-Hispanic whites, 43. To James Kolbe, a Republican who in the 1990s and 2000s represented the Arizona congressional seat that flipped in the midterms, south and east of Tucson, the president’s rhetoric about illegal immigrants was reminiscent of the white-hot anger he heard at town hall events in the mid-2000s. But that talk is out of date, he said, because the reality on the southern border is far different. With illegal immigration near a 50-year low, more Mexicans are leaving the United States than entering. Meanwhile, there is a spike in families and children from Central America turning themselves in to border agents. Critics of the Trump administration say the actual border crisis is one of its own making because it has failed to allocate resources to process asylum seekers and humanely house children and families. In the race for Mr. Kolbe’s old district, which has swung between the parties, the losing Republican supported Mr. Trump’s wall, while the Democratic victor, Ann Kirkpatrick, opposed new border barriers and called for a path to citizenship for “Dreamers,” the immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children. While the district’s overall population since 2000 has grown by 14.5 percent, its Latino population soared 53 percent, according to a New York Times analysis of census data. Back in New Mexico, Ms. Torres Small won a narrow victory in the Second District thanks to a voter surge in Democratic-leaning Las Cruces, the state’s second-largest city. Turnout in the city and surrounding Doña Ana County was up 4 percent over 2010, while in Lea County — a Republican stronghold — turnout fell more than 7 percent, starkly showing the contrast between Democratic and Republican enthusiasm, which many observers trace to Mr. Trump. On Saturday, chants of “No wall! No wall!” broke out as Ms. Torres Small spoke at the local women’s march about the need to compromise with the president on the shutdown. “We have to make sure that people who live on the border have a voice for what we want our border to look like,” Ms. Torres Small said, according to The Las Cruces Sun News. Meanwhile, at a street market downtown where farmers sold honey and chile wreaths, shoppers said they had no sense of a crisis on the border, which is 40 miles south and buffered by scrubland of juniper and yucca. Last year the Border Patrol replaced 20 miles of low fencing meant to stop vehicles with a column-style barrier, 18 to 30 feet tall, which one shopper called a “Jurassic Park wall.” “I really don’t think about it very much at all,” said Patricia Mihok, who was selling children’s books she had written about wildlife of the Chihuahuan Desert, which straddles the international border. She worried that a border wall would threaten migrating species. Rory Richardson, 70, a retired airline pilot, called a wall a waste of money. He blamed the president for falsely accusing immigrants of crimes unsupported by statistics. “He brings out the very worst in this society,” Mr. Richardson said. “He’s talking to the people who supported him from Day 1, that don’t care about the truth. They’ve made up their minds and don’t confuse me with the facts.” But Henry Diaz, 85, a retired sheriff of Doña Ana County, who was strolling with his wife after a breakfast of huevos rancheros at Rosie’s Cafe, said a border wall was needed. “Everybody has a fence around their house,” he said. “Why do you have that? You need the privacy.” New Mexico, which last voted for a Republican for president in 2004, was once more of a political battleground than it is today. Democrats made sweeping gains in the midterms, winning not just the Second District but also the governor’s race and enlarging their majorities in the Legislature. Last week, Democratic lawmakers in Santa Fe introduced bills to make New Mexico a “sanctuary state,” which would bar state agencies from helping federal immigration authorities who seek to deport undocumented immigrants. “I think it’s important that New Mexico not help Donald Trump enact basically racist immigration policies,” Mr. Steinborn, the Las Cruces lawmaker, said.    ", "id": "5c4ade3b3a125f5075c06466", "date": "2019-01-25T10:00:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Defying Congress, Trump Plans to Renew Fight for Border Wall Funding", "full_text": " WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, undaunted by perhaps the most bruising legislative defeat of his tenure, plans to kick off a fresh effort on Monday to pressure Congress to pay for a wall along the southwestern border, most likely setting up another showdown with Democrats who have vowed to block his signature project. Mr. Trump, who failed to extract even a single extra dollar for his wall during a winter battle that shut down parts of the federal government for a record 35 days, will request $8.6 billion in the annual budget proposal, aides said. He will also ask Congress for another $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds he has diverted to begin work on the wall by declaring a national emergency, for a total of $12.2 billion. “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser. “We have a crisis down there.” Speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” Mr. Kudlow acknowledged that “there will be” a fight over the issue in Congress. That may be an understatement. Just as Mr. Trump has relentlessly made the wall his highest domestic priority as he gears up for a re-election bid next year, Democrats who took control in the House in January have made it a litmus test of their determination to stand up to his immigration policies. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, did not even wait for the new wall request to reach Capitol Hill before declaring it dead on arrival on Sunday. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat and reopen the government,” they said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again. We hope he learned his lesson.” The budget Mr. Trump will send Congress on Monday will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money in the 2020 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Aside from the proposed wall funding, administration officials said, the president will call for a sizable increase in military spending and significant cuts in domestic programs, neither of which Democrats are likely to accept. Mr. Trump’s fiscal plan will also indicate that he will not balance the budget during his presidency even if he wins a second term, despite his campaign promise not only to eliminate the annual deficit but to pay off the entire national debt accumulated over generations as well. His budget blueprint promises a balanced budget only in 15 years, long after he will have left office, aides said, and even that is predicated on growth estimates that seem unrealistically inflated to independent economists. At a time when most economic forecasters see growth slowing in the United States and around the world, the budget projects American growth will actually rise this year — to 3.2 percent, up from 2.9 percent for 2018. That is nearly a full percentage point higher than the 2.3 percent forecast by the Federal Reserve. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on Sunday that administration economists expected continued boosts to growth this year from the $1.5 trillion in tax cuts that Mr. Trump signed in 2017, including further increases in labor force participation by older workers. Other economists have criticized the sustained forecast of 3 percent growth over a decade as overly optimistic. Mr. Hassett defended it by pointing to the administration’s forecast for last year, which was only slightly above the actual growth rate. “We have the same forecast we had last year,” Mr. Hassett said, “because we got last year precisely correct.” The budget is the first of Mr. Trump’s tenure to theoretically adhere to spending caps that Congress adopted under President Barack Obama, only to bust in the years since. But Mr. Trump accomplishes this only through budgetary legerdemain by pushing much of his 4.7 percent military spending increase out of the regular budget and into an account called Overseas Contingency Operations that has been used mainly to finance wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria and has therefore been exempt from congressional caps. At the same time, domestic discretionary programs would be cut 5 percent, an idea certain to go nowhere with Democrats. Mr. Trump is hoping to avoid a repeat of last year’s budget deal, in which he was forced to agree to major domestic spending increases to secure his military boost. But he has even less sway now than he did last year, when Republicans controlled both houses of Congress. The overseas operations fund would receive $165 billion, compared with $69 billion this year, even as Mr. Trump is scaling back military operations in Afghanistan and Syria. The last time the fund had so much money was in the 2010 fiscal year, when the United States had nearly seven times as many troops in Afghanistan and Iraq. Among those who have criticized the overseas operations budget category as a “slush fund” is Mick Mulvaney, a Republican former congressman who served as Mr. Trump’s first budget director and is now the acting White House chief of staff. On the wall, the president seems more intent on proving to conservatives his commitment to building it than to finding a compromise with Democrats. Administration officials said the new $8.6 billion Mr. Trump is seeking would enable him to complete the project, with a total of 700 miles of barriers, most of it new, though with some sections refurbished. Mr. Trump, who spent the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, golfing and raising a reported $7 million for the coming elections, lashed out at Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator who has accused him of giving up too much on the wall. “Wacky Nut Job @AnnCoulter, who still hasn’t figured out that, despite all odds and an entire Democrat Party of Far Left Radicals against me (not to mention certain Republicans who are sadly unwilling to fight), I am winning on the Border,” he wrote on Twitter on Saturday. “Major sections of Wall are being built and renovated,” he added, “with MUCH MORE to follow shortly. Tens of thousands of illegals are being apprehended (captured) at the Border and NOT allowed into our Country. With another President, millions would be pouring in. I am stopping an invasion as the Wall gets built.” In December, Mr. Trump refused to accept $1.375 billion for barriers along the border — though not steel or concrete walls — and demanded that Congress instead give him $5.7 billion, resulting in the partial government shutdown that left agencies closed and 800,000 workers without pay. After five weeks, he gave in and agreed to reopen the government without concessions by the Democrats. The spending deal that ultimately passed both the Democratic-controlled House and the Republican-controlled Senate included just the $1.375 billion he had originally turned down. He signed grudgingly but then declared a national emergency to justify raiding $3.6 billion from a military construction fund for wall money. Relying on a president’s more traditional authority to move money around in limited ways, he also diverted another $3.1 billion from counternarcotics programs and an asset forfeiture fund. Combined with the $1.375 billion, that gave him about $8 billion for border barriers. Democrats and some Republicans objected to the national emergency declaration on the grounds that Mr. Trump was abusing the Constitution by appropriating money that Congress had explicitly refused to spend for that purpose. The House has voted to overturn his declaration, and enough Republicans have signaled that they will join Democrats to do the same in the Senate, presumably prompting what would be the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency. Critics do not have enough votes to override his veto, but lawsuits have been filed seeking to block his move. The budget to be unveiled on Monday would backfill the $3.6 billion from military construction projects, but officials did not say whether the other diverted money would be restored. Given the anger on the left over the national emergency declaration, it seemed hard to imagine that Democrats would agree to sanction it by reimbursing the money he took. “This ridiculous request, like the rest of the Trump budget, is not even worth the paper it’s written on,” said Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee. Peter Baker reported from West Palm Beach, Fla., and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Alan Rappeport, Michael Tackett, Nicholas Fandos and Chris Cameron from Washington. Follow Peter Baker and Jim Tankersley on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @jimtankersley.", "id": "5c851a7049f0eacbf105c4bc", "date": "2019-03-10T14:07:18+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Border Wall, Vatican, Karl Lagerfeld: Your Tuesday Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning, We start today with a multistate lawsuit over President Trump’s national emergency declaration, our obituary for the designer Karl Lagerfeld, and another presidential run for Senator Bernie Sanders. A coalition of states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court on Monday over his plan to use emergency powers to pay for a wall on the border with Mexico. The suit, filed in San Francisco, argues that the president doesn’t have the power to divert funds because it is Congress that controls spending. Read the full lawsuit here. Catch up: The lawsuit is part of a constitutional battle that Mr. Trump set off last week when he declared a national emergency in order to use money that lawmakers declined to give him. Go deeper: Presidents have declared national emergencies nearly five dozen times since 1976. Never before has one been used after Congress rejected funding for a particular policy. Mr. Trump said on Monday that forces loyal to President Nicolás Maduro stand to “lose everything” by refusing to allow in emergency aid that has been blocked at the border. Mr. Trump’s remarks at a rally in Florida came five days before a deadline that his administration and the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, have declared for getting aid into the country, which has experienced long shortages of food and medicine. What’s next: It’s unclear how the Venezuelan opposition would break the blockade. John Bolton, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, said the U.S. military, which has airlifted supplies to the Venezuela-Colombia border, would not enter the country. Another angle: The crisis has prompted plans for dueling concerts this weekend, one organized by the British billionaire Richard Branson and one by the Venezuelan government. McKinsey & Company, which says it offers management advice to 90 of the world’s 100 biggest companies, also has a secretive $12.3 billion investment arm, prompting questions about conflicts of interest. In Puerto Rico, where McKinsey is advising a board that seeks to reduce the island’s debt, the company’s hedge fund has investments in that debt, according to a report released on Monday. Response: McKinsey says the way the fund is operated ensures that its employee investors do not stand to benefit from the firm’s inside knowledge. But those assurances have been challenged in Congress and in lawsuits. The Roman Catholic Church has guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and father children. There are no estimates of how many such children exist. A Vatican spokesman said that the “fundamental principle” of the internal document was the “protection of the child.” He said the guidelines requested that the father leave the priesthood, but another official said that was “impossible to impose.” How we know: The Vatican confirmed, apparently for the first time, the existence of the rules in response to a query from The Times. Related: The revelation comes as the Vatican prepares for a meeting this week about the church’s child sexual abuse crisis at which victims will speak. Catch up: The Vatican announced over the weekend that Pope Francis had expelled Theodore McCarrick, a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington, from the priesthood. It appeared to be the first time that a cardinal had been defrocked for sexual abuse. The designer, whose career formed the prototype of the modern luxury fashion industry, died today in Paris at 85. The creative director at Chanel since 1983, Mr. Lagerfeld helped transform the fashion house by “wresting it into the present with a healthy dose of disrespect and a dollop of pop culture,” our fashion critic writes. From the archives: In an interview with T Magazine in 2015, Mr. Lagerfeld said, ‘‘Luxury is something very few people have. And to buy a handbag is to have a dream of getting nearer. That’s our culture and tons of people — me included — make a lot of money from it.’’ Read more here. Math would seem to be the ultimate meritocracy. Either you can solve a problem or you can’t. But fewer than 1 percent of doctorates in the subject are awarded to African-Americans. Dr. Edray Goins, pictured above, won two math prizes at Caltech, and in 1999 he received a Ph.D. from Stanford’s math department. “To say that I feel isolated,” he wrote in a widely shared essay, “is an understatement.”  The 2020 race: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont announced today that he’s running for president again. Here’s where the runner-up for the 2016 Democratic nomination stands on the issues. North Carolina vote: At a hearing on Monday that could settle the final undecided House race of 2018, a state election official said that an operative working on behalf of a Republican candidate went to elaborate lengths to conceal an illegal absentee ballot “scheme.” Southern Baptist Convention: The largest evangelical denomination in the U.S. has announced plans to address revelations of widespread sexual abuse in churches across the country. Political storm in Canada: The resignation of a top adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has deepened a crisis over allegations that the government tried to interfere in a criminal court case. Jussie Smollett case: The police in Chicago said they planned to re-interview the “Empire” star after news reports that the attack he reported last month had been a hoax. Here’s a timeline of the case. Snapshot: Above, Asdrubal Cabrera of the Texas Rangers at bat during spring training in Surprise, Ariz., on Monday. (Start the countdown: Spring begins March 20, and Major League Baseball has its earliest opening day ever, March 28.) In memoriam: Lee Radziwill, a former princess and the younger sister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, died on Friday at 85.  George Mendonsa made the most credible claim to being the sailor who was famously photographed kissing a woman in Times Square after the end of World War II. He died on Sunday at 95. Late-night comedy: In declaring a national emergency last week, President Trump said, “I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it much faster.” That prompted Stephen Colbert to say: “That’s the exact opposite of an emergency. That’s a choice.” What we’re watching: This Twitter thread. The briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell, writes: “Dance tells its own story. I can only hope someone will put into words what these clips of break dancing among rural Chinese have to say.”  Cook: Leave the measuring spoons aside for a simple roast fish with ginger, scallions and soy. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.) Watch: Sergei Bondarchuk’s sprawling 1960s adaptation of “War and Peace” is “a singular feat of filmmaking that can never be repeated,” our critic writes. A digital restoration of the seven-hour-plus magnum opus is screening through Thursday at Film Society of Lincoln Center, and a home release by Criterion is in the works. Listen: “For Real,” a previously unreleased Tom Petty track about media posturing, rings true in 2019. Read: Our Globetrotting feature offers a preview of books being published around the world. Smarter Living: Face-to-face connections come with meaningful bonds. How to make time for that? Invite family members into whatever you’re already doing. Ask your kids to help you cook. Invite your spouse to walk the dog with you. You can turn ritual into connection. An organizational psychologist offers strategies to handle even the most hopelessly overstuffed inbox. Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly” is one of the most popular operas ever written. It would have been pretty amazing to be at its premiere, which was given this week in 1904, right? Undoubtedly — because it was one of the great fiascos in opera history. The premiere, at the storied Teatro alla Scala in Milan, was often drowned out by what one critic described as “groans, roars, moos, laughs, bellows, sneers.” The Times reported that the opera had been “received rather coldly.” Puccini compared the experience to a “lynching.” Some believed rivals had organized claques to embarrass him. Others cited the opera’s subject matter: An unsympathetic American naval lieutenant impregnates and abandons a Japanese teenager, later driving her to suicide. After several revisions — including a new remorseful aria to soften the lieutenant — “Butterfly” became a hit. (The challenge in staging it these days has more to do with avoiding Orientalism and cultural appropriation.) And in 2016, La Scala staged the rarely seen original version, in a symbolic act of contrition. That’s it for this briefing.  Thanks to all the readers who answered our call on Friday for odd facts, some of which we plan to feature in future briefings.  See you next time. — Chris Thank youMark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson gave us the break from the news. Michael Cooper, who covers classical music and dance for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Democrats and Israel.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Vietnamese New Year (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • In 2016, a mariachi band serenaded Julia Preston as she left The Times after more than two decades as a reporter and editor focused on Mexico and immigration.  Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc ", "id": "5c6bd9d43a125f5075c0a5ef", "date": "2019-02-19T10:24:58+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Does the President’s Goal to Build a Border Wall Merit a Government Shutdown?", "full_text": " Student Opinion On the eve of the partial government shutdown, Dec. 21, The Times wrote: Standing in the way of a resolution to the government shutdown is a wall. A still mostly hypothetical wall along large sections of the southern border intended to keep immigrants from entering the United States illegally. A wall that President Trump promised his supporters he would deliver once he was in the Oval Office. A wall that if not built, some conservatives say, could cost Mr. Trump his presidency. Eighteen days later, the second-longest shutdown in United States history was affecting about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will miss their first paycheck this week. It is also beginning to inflict pain on Americans whose lives are affected, in one way or another, by the federal government. President Trump insists on $5.7 billion to fund the border wall. He argues that there is a “humanitarian and security crisis” on the southern border that must be addressed before a government shutdown can end. Democrats insist there is no crisis that merits a government shutdown, and that the government must be reopened before negotiations on any border security money begin. What do you think? Do you support the president’s demand for wall funding? Do you think building a border wall merits a partial shutdown of the federal government? Now that the shutdown is in its third week, what do you think should happen? Should the president stand firm for weeks, months or years? Should Democrats who oppose the president’s agenda continue to resist? Is there room for compromise on this issue? How should this standoff be resolved? In “Trump’s National Address Escalates Border Wall Fight,” Peter Baker writes about the president’s address to the nation Tuesday night about the shutdown and his proposed wall: WASHINGTON — President Trump doubled down on one of the biggest gambles of his presidency on Tuesday night with a televised appeal to pressure Congress into paying for his long-promised border wall, even at the cost of leaving the government partly closed until lawmakers give in. Embarking on a strategy that he himself privately disparaged as unlikely to work, Mr. Trump devoted the first prime-time Oval Office address of his presidency to his proposed barrier in hopes of enlisting public support in an ideological and political conflict that has shut the doors of many federal agencies for 18 days. In a nine-minute speech that made no new arguments but included multiple misleading assertions, the president sought to recast the situation at the Mexican border as a “humanitarian crisis” and opted against declaring a national emergency to bypass Congress, which he had threatened to do, at least for now. But he excoriated Democrats for blocking the wall, accusing them of hypocrisy and exposing the country to criminal immigrants. “How much more American blood must we shed before Congress does its job?” Mr. Trump asked, citing a litany of grisly crimes said to be committed by illegal immigrants. Asking Americans to call their lawmakers, he added: “This is a choice between right and wrong, justice and injustice. This is about whether we fulfill our sacred duty to the American citizens we serve.” Democrats dismissed his talk of crisis as overstated cynicism and, with polls showing Mr. Trump bearing more of the blame since the partial shutdown began last month, betrayed no signs of giving in. The White House earlier in the day dispatched Vice President Mike Pence and others to Capitol Hill to try to shore up Senate Republicans, who are growing increasingly anxious as the standoff drags on. In their own televised response on Tuesday night, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, accused the president of stoking fear and mocked him for asking taxpayers to foot the bill for a wall he had long said Mexico would pay for. “President Trump must stop holding the American people hostage, must stop manufacturing a crisis and must reopen the government,” Ms. Pelosi said. Students, read the entire article, then tell us: — Should President Trump insist on funding the border wall, no matter how long the shutdown continues? Should Democrats continue to insist that the government must reopen before they will discuss border security funding? — Did President Trump’s prime-time address to the nation on Tuesday sway your opinion on this issue? What about the response by the Democratic leaders Senator Chuck Schumer and Speaker Nancy Pelosi? — How do you predict this impasse will be resolved? How do you want it to be resolved? _________ Related Resource Deconstructing the Wall: Teaching About the Symbolism, Politics and Reality of the U.S.-Mexico Border Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public. ", "id": "5c35c6273a125f5075c037f2", "date": "2019-01-09T10:00:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "With Override Vote Coming, Congress Examines Military Cuts That Will Fund Wall", "full_text": " JACKSONVILLE, N.C. — The main road that connects a strip of tattoo parlors, pawn shops and restaurants to Camp Lejeune is still lined with broken trees bent by Hurricane Florence’s winds. Inside the gates, a new threat has arisen for the sprawling Marine Corps base as it contends with billions of dollars in hurricane damage and lingering effects of contaminated water: President Trump’s border wall. On Tuesday, the House will try to override the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency and rescue Congress’s bipartisan bid to block the president’s national emergency declaration, which Mr. Trump wants to use to siphon military funds from projects like Camp Lejeune’s reconstruction to build a wall on the Mexican border. Last month, Democrats appealed to Republicans — with only limited success — to vote down the president’s emergency on the lofty grounds of constitutional prerogative and Congress’s control of federal spending. This time, on the veto override, their appeal is more parochial: Look where the wall money will come from. “A bipartisan majority of Congress went on record in voting to rebuke this ill-conceived idea,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Now that members of Congress can see the potential impact this proposal could have on projects in their home states, I hope they will take that into consideration before the vote to override the president’s veto.” The expansive list of Defense Department projects targeted for possible cuts — $12.9 billion in all — spans nearly all 50 states and more than two dozen countries where troops are stationed. Fire station repairs, new schools and training complexes are all slated for potential funding delays to fulfill Mr. Trump’s intent to take up to $3.6 billion in military construction funds for the wall. So are plans for Camp Lejeune’s new water treatment facility. “What may seem small is large to others,” said Monique Gibbs, 39, a Jacksonville, N.C., native who works with survivors of trauma and abuse. On Monday, Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, authorized the first transfer of Defense Department money to fencing construction at the southwestern border: up to $1 billion from military personnel funding toward the construction of 57 miles of border wall, improving roads and adding lighting in Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso, according to a letter sent to the Department of Homeland Security. That transfer was made without having to use the emergency declaration, but the Defense Department is rushing to sign contracts on several projects, hoping that will protect them before officials turn to military construction funds to fulfill the president’s request. But some projects would be hit if the emergency decree survives its congressional rebuke and court challenges, and delays could be consequential for service members and their families. National Guard officials are scrambling to award money to build a $9 million fire rescue station in Peoria, Ill., before it is lost to the border and locals are left with an outdated fire station — built in 1992 and incapable of providing 24-hour support. At Fort Campbell, Ky., home of the historic 101st Airborne Division, base housing and maintenance facilities are throwbacks to the 1950s. The structures have slowly degraded under the rapid deployment tempo of the wars since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, according to congressional aides who recently toured the facility. And without congressional intervention, construction on a $63 million middle school will be delayed and base officials will likely repurpose an aging high school in the interim. In Jacksonville, there is discomfort among residents that money for Camp Lejeune’s projects could be delayed for a wall more than a thousand miles away. John Henley, a defense contractor here, doubted the “financial feasibility” of Mr. Trump’s signature campaign promise, but he also was resigned to a local hit. “I hate to make it so nonchalant; a building or two may fall down before they get repaired,” Mr. Henley, 34, said as he polished off a black cherry and grape snow cone a couple miles from Camp Lejeune. But, he added, “we’re a resilient type.” Efforts to turn the list into political ammunition against Republicans are particularly pointed in North Carolina, where Senator Thom Tillis, a first-term Republican, is running for re-election next year. Mr. Tillis publicly outlined his intent to vote against Mr. Trump’s national emergency declaration last month in a Washington Post opinion piece last month that dwelt on his constitutional responsibilities. Then, just before the vote last week, he changed his mind and voted with the president. Already, the state Democratic Party has blasted out emails detailing which North Carolina projects were on the list — including the Camp Lejeune water treatment facility — and condemning Mr. Tillis for putting “his political career ahead of the well-being” of local military families. That fund-raising email sparked more than double the average amount in donations, according to a person familiar with the results. “This definitely damaged Senator Tillis’s re-election concern in a way that’s unique, more so than the government shutdown or some of the past votes he took,” said Robert Howard, a spokesman for the North Carolina Democratic Party, citing the potential effect on Camp Lejeune, Fort Bragg and other military bases. “We very much understood what the emergency declaration could mean to our state.” Mr. Tillis said on Monday that he was concerned about the potential threat to the projects, but added, “I feel like the critical needs — we’ll be able to secure funding.” “I’m not worried about that,” Mr. Tillis said when asked about Democrats weaponizing his vote and the threat to North Carolina projects. “They’ll always be looking for ammunition.” Republican strategists and several conservative voters said his flip-flop suited them fine. “I’m glad he changed his mind,” said Ann Sulliview, 68, speaking ahead of a Republican convention in Wayne County, where officials emphasized the need to keep both the Senate and the presidency in Republican control. But, she conceded, “he was going to catch flak for that either way he went.” Patrick Gallagher, a Wayne County chiropractor, agreed. “We put him in office because he’s going to help the Republican Party,” he said. “The fact that he had a change of heart shows that he reflected back on why he’s there. He’s not there to thwart what we’re trying to accomplish.” Potentially losing money for military projects, he acknowledged, “is not the best” for the state. But he said it was something he and other conservative voters could accept for Mr. Trump and his wall. “I think we would give that up to do the greater good,” Dr. Gallagher said. “It’s not the best, but we’re forced to do that.” Republican lawmakers who voted against the national emergency declaration found that sentiment prevalent when they returned to their districts. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, was disinvited from a Republican dinner after his vote against the emergency declaration, the Kansas City Star reported. And at a town hall-style meeting in Spokane, Wash., on Monday, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers told about 20 constituents that her vote for the resolution of disapproval — “a difficult vote for me,” she repeated — was a vote against a president trying to secure taxpayer funds without congressional approval, not against a border wall. Some applauded her resolve, but others were unconvinced of her support for Mr. Trump’s border security vision. “I appreciate your vote, but I disagree,” said Kerry Schmidt, 62. “There’s a lot of people fighting against it. Where are the people fighting for it?” Emily Cochrane reported from Jacksonville, N.C., and Thomas Gibbons-Neff reported from Washington.    ", "id": "5c993f5749f0eacbf105ef6f", "date": "2019-03-25T20:50:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Repeats Unfounded Arguments in New Appeal for a Border Wall", "full_text": " Fact Check Even as he agreed to reopen the government, the president used recycled inaccurate claims to press his case for a wall. President Trump has addressed the nation in prime time from the Oval Office, delivered remarks from the Rose Garden, met with Democrats in the Situation Room and traveled to the border with Mexico to make his case that the government would not reopen unless he got funding for a border wall. Thirty-five days into the shutdown, the president announced on Friday from the Rose Garden that the government would reopen until at least Feb. 15, giving Congress time to work out a deal on border security. He did not get any funding for a wall. And on Friday, he did not advance any new arguments for building one. In fact, many of the claims he made were recycled heavily from previous comments and contained many of the same misstatements and exaggerations.  Also notable was something Mr. Trump did not say, namely that Mexico would pay for the wall, one of the most often repeated, and unsupported, claims he has made on the border funding dispute. The essence of Mr. Trump’s pitch for a border wall — that a porous border had led to a crime and drug epidemic — remained unchanged. Last year, he said, Immigrations and Customs Enforcement “removed 10,000 known or suspected gang members like MS-13 and members as bad as them.” (This is exaggerated; the agency reported it had removed 5,872 “known or suspected” gang members in the 2018 fiscal year.) In addition, Mr. Trump repeated the statistic that in the past two years, ICE “arrested a total of 266,000 criminal aliens inside of the United States, including those charged or convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults, 30,000 sex crimes and 4,000 homicides or, as you would call them, violent, vicious killings.” The figures include both charges and convictions, and each arrest may represent multiple offenses. The most common charges were traffic violations and drug and immigration offenses. “Drugs kill much more than 70,000 Americans a year and cost our society in excess of $700 billion,” the president said. The figures are accurate for overdose deaths and the economic costs of addiction. But a border wall would do little to prevent the 35 percent of overdose deaths involving prescription opioids or the $627.5 billion in costs incurred because of tobacco, alcohol and prescription drug addiction. Still, the president pressed the case. “I believe that crime in this country can go down by a massive percentage if we have great security on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said. “I believe drugs, large percentages of which come through the southern border, will be cut by a number that nobody will believe.” The claim that a wall would lead to a huge decrease in crime is not supported by statistics. Construction of a wall would not suddenly remove millions of undocumented immigrants already in the United States, and there is no evidence of a causal link between immigration and crime. As for drugs, 90 percent of heroin coming into the United States enters through the southern border. But it is mostly smuggled through legal ports of entry and not wall-less areas. Most Fentanyl arrives in the United States from China through the mail. Though border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, Mr. Trump continued to stress the need for a border wall with exaggerated data and overstated claims. “Last month was the third straight month in a row with 60,000 apprehensions on our southern border,” he said. “Think of that. We apprehended 60,000 people.” That monthly figure for October and November — data for December was not yet publicly posted — includes the 51,000 people caught illegally crossing the border, as well as the 9,000 to 10,000 people who attempted to enter through legal ports of entry but were deemed “inadmissible” each month. In the 2018 fiscal year, apprehensions at the border averaged 33,000 per month. And he recounted with graphic detail what happens to victims of smugglers: “Women are tied up. They’re bound. Duct tape put around their faces, around their mouths. In many cases, they can’t even breathe. They’re put in the backs of cars or vans or trucks. They don’t go through your port of entry. They make a right turn going very quickly.” It is possible that Mr. Trump learned of a duct-taping case from law enforcement officers, but more than a dozen experts in human trafficking told The Washington Post and The Toronto Star that they had not witnessed or heard of such an episode. For emphasis, he added, “It’s at the worst level — human trafficking — in the history of the world.” Millions of Africans were forcibly enslaved and trafficked during the 15th and 18th centuries. Mr. Trump thanked federal workers for their sacrifice and support: “Not only did you not complain, but in many cases, you encouraged me to keep going because you care so much about our country and about its border security.” Whatever Mr. Trump may have personally heard, polls have shown the opposite — most civil servants have overwhelmingly opposed the shutdown. Beyond federal workers, he said, Republicans and Democrats — and, by extension, the American people — are “for complete border security, and they have finally and fully acknowledged that having barriers, fencing or walls — or whatever you want to call it — will be an important part of the solution.” A Washington Post poll this week noted that surveys have “consistently showed that a majority of Americans do not support the wall.” The Post-ABC News poll found that 54 percent of Americans oppose the project, while 42 percent support it, unchanged from a survey two weeks ago. On Friday, the president said, “We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shining sea — we never did.” He added that he had never proposed such a thing.  Dozens of times during the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump promised to build a wall along the southwestern border, usually saying it would be 1,000 miles long at varying heights and costs. At times, the building materials changed. He mentioned concrete, steel and, at one point, even a wall that would have solar panels. But a wall and the unsupported pledge that Mexico would pay for it were foundational elements of his campaign, and Mr. Trump has continued to make similar assertions throughout his presidency. Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu  Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc ", "id": "5c4ba0333a125f5075c066a2", "date": "2019-01-25T23:47:38+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Trump Still Considering Emergency Plan for Border Wall", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • President Trump stormed out of a White House meeting with congressional leaders, calling it a “total waste of time,” after Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she would not fund a wall on the southern border. • In a luncheon with Senate Republicans, Mr. Trump warned that he was still considering declaring a national emergency to build his border wall without congressional approval. • If the president invokes emergency powers, it could be a mutually face-saving way to reopen the government, but also a violation of constitutional norms. • Mr. Trump’s relentless demands for a wall could divide Democrats over border security alternatives, so they are sticking to what unifies them: reopening the government. • Shutting down the government isn’t cheap. Here are some of the ways it raises costs. • Bill Shine, the White House deputy chief of staff for communications, has been mostly missing in action amid the government shutdown. Now, the president doubts whether Mr. Shine can deliver on his early promise to provide good headlines. • The Washington metro area is home to the largest number of federal workers in the country, and as their paychecks begin stopping, the negative effects threaten to spread across the region. • Democrats are eager to use their House majority to investigate Mr. Trump. They have a plan, but it may take a while to build up steam. • House Democrats have summoned Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, to deliver a classified briefing about the Trump administration’s plans to end sanctions on companies linked to a Russian oligarch. • Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who had been overseeing the Russia investigation, is expected to leave the Justice Department after Mr. Trump’s choice for attorney general is confirmed. • Tom Steyer, the California billionaire who has crusaded for Mr. Trump’s impeachment, said he would not run for president in 2020. He is instead focusing his efforts on toppling Mr. Trump before the election. • A long-running dispute between a Nevada man and the California tax authorities made its third appearance at the Supreme Court, prompting arguments about the power of precedent and the limits of state sovereignty. • Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida signaled that he planned to suspend Sheriff Scott Israel of Broward County over the bungled police response to the shooting last year at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c36d1b23a125f5075c03a85", "date": "2019-01-10T05:01:36+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "National Emergency Powers and Trump’s Border Wall, Explained", "full_text": " Updated February 14, 2019: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, announced that President Trump planned to declare a national emergency so he can bypass Congress and build his long-promised wall along the southwestern border. Read the latest here. WASHINGTON — As the budget standoff between President Trump and congressional Democrats grinds into the third week of a partial government shutdown, the White House has floated the idea that Mr. Trump might invoke emergency powers to build his proposed wall on the Mexican border without lawmakers’ approval. That route could resolve the immediate crisis by giving Mr. Trump a face-saving way to sign spending bills that do not include funding for his wall. But it would be an extraordinarily aggressive move — at a minimum, a violation of constitutional norms — that would most likely thrust the wall’s fate into the courts. Here is a primer on whether Mr. Trump can use emergency powers to proceed with the project without explicit congressional permission. The president has the authority to declare a national emergency, which activates enhancements to his executive powers by essentially creating exceptions to rules that normally constrain him. The idea is to enable the government to respond quickly to a crisis. Although presidents have sometimes claimed that the Constitution gives them inherent powers to act beyond ordinary legal limits in an exigency, those claims tend to fare poorly when challenged in court. But presidents are on firmer legal ground when they invoke statutes in which Congress delegated authorities to the executive branch that can be generated in emergencies. In a recent study, the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law identified 123 provisions of law granting presidents a range of such powers. The National Emergencies Act, enacted during the post-Watergate reform era, regulates how presidents may invoke such powers. It requires them to formally declare a national emergency and tell Congress which statutes are being activated. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.] Maybe. The Trump administration could point to two laws and say they allow officials to proceed with building a border wall without first obtaining explicit authorization and appropriations from Congress, according to Elizabeth Goitein, who oversaw the Brennan Center’s study and is a co-director of its Liberty and National Security Program. One of the laws permits the secretary of the Army to halt Army civil works projects during a presidentially declared emergency and instead direct troops and other resources to help construct “authorized civil works, military construction and civil defense projects that are essential to the national defense.” Another law permits the secretary of defense, in an emergency, to begin military construction projects “not otherwise authorized by law that are necessary to support such use of the armed forces,” using funds that Congress had appropriated for military construction purposes that have not yet been earmarked for specific projects. Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers. In light of those statutes and similar ones that give presidents flexibility to redirect funds in a crisis, the Trump administration could point to serious arguments to back up Mr. Trump if he invokes emergency powers to build a wall, said William C. Banks, a Syracuse University law professor who helped write a 1994 book about tensions between the executive and legislative branches over security and spending, “National Security Law and the Power of the Purse.” “The fundamental principle is that no president or official may spend funds that were not appropriated for that purpose,” he said. “But I think that it’s possible that the president could declare a national emergency and then rely on authority Congress has historically granted for exigencies to free up some funds to support constructing a barrier along the border.” No. If he invokes emergency powers to build a border wall, Mr. Trump is almost certain to invite a court battle. While Ms. Goitein agreed that “there is a nonfrivolous legal case to be made” that emergency-powers laws might empower Mr. Trump to spend military funds on a wall, she also pointed to counterarguments any lawsuit would have to contend with. For example, she noted, under one of the laws Mr. Trump might try to invoke, the military may redirect funds to build only projects that Congress has separately authorized. Lawmakers have not approved a military wall spanning the border. Still, the administration might argue that Congress has effectively preapproved a wall-like barrier under other laws, including one that authorizes the military to construct border “fences” blocking drug-smuggling corridors, and another, the Secure Fence Act of 2006, that empowers the Department of Homeland Security to build “physical infrastructure enhancements” along the border. The government could skip the requirement to identify pre-existing authorization for a wall if it invoked a different emergency-powers law for the funds, but that route would raise other problems, Ms. Goitein said. Among them, the government would need to show that a wall meets the legal definition of military construction even though it is not clearly tied to a military facility or installation and that the southern border situation represents the kind of emergency that requires the use of the armed forces. Probably not. If Mr. Trump declares that the situation along the southern border suddenly constitutes an emergency that justifies building a wall without explicit congressional sanction, he will run up against a reality: that the facts on the ground have not drastically shifted. The number of people crossing the border unlawfully is far down from its peak of nearly two decades ago. The recent caravans from Central America primarily consist of migrants who are not trying to sneak across the border but instead are presenting themselves to border officials and requesting asylum. And while Mr. Trump and his aides keep claiming that terrorists are sneaking in across the border, including assertions that they are doing so by the thousands, as a matter of empirical reality, there has been no such instance in the modern era. Still, as a matter of legal procedure, facts may be irrelevant. Before a court could decide that Mr. Trump had cynically declared an emergency under false pretenses, the court would first have to decide that the law permits judges to substitute their own thinking for the president’s in such a matter. The Justice Department would surely argue that courts should instead defer to the president’s determination. “If any court would actually let itself review whether this is a national emergency, he would be in big trouble,” Ms. Goitein said. “I think it would be an abuse of power to declare an emergency where none exists. The problem is that Congress has enabled that abuse of power by putting virtually no limits on the president’s ability to declare an emergency.” In part by accident. When passing many emergency-powers laws, Congress attached a procedure that would let lawmakers override any particular invocation of that authority. The National Emergencies Act, for example, permitted Congress to rescind an emergency if both the House and the Senate voted for a resolution rejecting the president’s determination that one existed. But in 1983, the Supreme Court struck down such legislative vetoes. The justices ruled that for a congressional act to have legal effect, it must be presented to the president for signature or veto. Because it takes two-thirds of both chambers to override a veto, the ruling significantly eroded the check and balance against abuse that lawmakers had intended to be part of their delegation of standby emergency powers to presidents. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage. OpinionBruce Ackerman   ", "id": "5c33e4db3a125f5075c033f3", "date": "2019-01-07T23:46:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "The Behind-the-Scenes Debate Over Immigration Was About Much More Than a Border Wall", "full_text": " After prompting the longest government shutdown in history, President Trump’s divisive proposal for a border wall has taken a back seat in recent days for negotiators in Congress who are seeking to avoid another crippling closure. The latest talks have focused on another immigration issue that has exploded in recent months: Record numbers of migrants being held in cramped detention centers. Under orders to end the process that the president calls “catch and release,” the authorities have arrested and jailed tens of thousands of migrants since Mr. Trump took office, and Republicans would like it to stay that way. Democrats argue that ordinary immigrants around the country are being unnecessarily plucked from their families and jailed, and newly arrived migrants are being forced to wait unreasonable lengths of time in harsh detention centers. At issue is how much money the budget should provide for detention. Without more money, the authorities will have to scale back on arrests. “We’ll be releasing gang members. We’ll be releasing individuals convicted of domestic violence and drug crimes,” said Matthew Albence, deputy director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. “We will not be able to respond to as many calls as we do today. And in fact, in many of these calls, we’re going to tell them, ‘Just release them,’ because we have no choice.” Democrats point out that more than a quarter of current ICE detainees are not subject to mandatory detention under the law. Both Republicans and Democrats are citing competing data to claim that the new budget proposal advances their goals. Here’s what the plan really says: Months of brinkmanship between Congress and the White House over the border wall have distracted from the issue of detention, which has now reached a breaking point, with the authorities being urged by the White House to arrest more immigrants than they can currently afford to detain. With little support for a robust border wall on either side of the aisle within Congress, Republicans and Democrats have moved on to detention, which is also expensive, and has implications for recent border crossers as well as immigrants with firmly established roots in the United States. Mr. Trump’s strict enforcement agenda has pushed the population of detained immigrants to the highest levels in history, with the authorities sweeping into immigrant-heavy locales to arrest vast numbers of the undocumented, as well as immigrants who have violated the terms of their visas (usually through criminal convictions), making them deportable. Under sweeping policy changes introduced by Mr. Trump, ICE has gone after immigrants who were once not targeted, repopularizing workplace raids, arresting community leaders, and using previously frowned upon tactics to ferret out anyone who can be expelled from the country. As a result, the average daily population in immigration detention for the 2019 fiscal year has reached 45,890. ICE currently has funding to house only 40,520 people. Republicans are saying that they secured money for 5,000 additional immigration detention beds, while Democrats are saying that they managed to bring down detention numbers by 17.4 percent. Technically, both are true. Here’s why: Both parties agreed in the proposal to fund an average daily population for 2019 of 45,724 ICE detainees, or about 5,000 more than the 2018 budget provided — allowing Republicans to claim their success. But in order to reach that average by Sept. 30, the last day of the fiscal year, ICE will gradually have to decrease its detained population to 40,520, which represents about a 17 percent decrease from the 49,057 who are currently detained. Republican aides suggested in internal communications that the number of detained immigrants could reach 58,500 under the proposal through a process called reprogramming, which allows agencies to adjust their budgets to address unforeseen emergencies. Under reprogramming, federal agencies can take money that has been appropriated by Congress for specific matters, and use it to fund other things. And though it is meant to be used sparingly, the Department of Homeland Security has often used reprogramming to fund extra detention beds. Though it is a common tactic, Democrats argue that the amount of money that would need to be reprogrammed in order to reach 58,500 detention beds, $750 million, would be unprecedented. And they argue that the congressional committees that are now controlled by Democrats would never approve such a large amount. The Department of Homeland Security has historically deferred to such committees for approval before reprogramming funds, though it is not technically required. The deal provides funds for $1.375 billion in physical barriers along the border, far less than the $5.7 billion that Mr. Trump requested for his border wall. The money could be put toward 55 miles of new fencing, using only “currently deployed designs.” The proposal also provides funding to revamp holding facilities that are used by Customs and Border Protection, which came under renewed scrutiny after the deaths of two young migrant children around Christmas. And it would refund Obama-era programs that were eliminated under Mr. Trump, which had provided alternatives to detention for certain immigrants. Those who had been enrolled in the programs were allowed to roam freely, using GPS ankle bracelets and other incentives devised to make sure they showed up for court.    ", "id": "5c64a2893a125f5075c09949", "date": "2019-02-13T23:03:11+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "A Border Wall to Stop Terrorists? Experts Say That Makes Little Sense", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump has repeatedly warned that terrorists are pouring into the United States from Mexico, in one of his central justifications for building a border wall. But his own government’s assessments conclude that Mr. Trump has seriously overstated the threat. And counterterrorism officials and experts said there had never been a case of a known terrorist sneaking into the country through open areas of the southwest border. Despite the administration’s focus on security threats at the border, a White House strategy document sent to Congress last month outlining steps needed to monitor and intercept terrorists included no reference to the need for construction of barriers, fences or walls. Separately, an intelligence analysis concluded that cyberattacks are the top threat to the United States — not terrorists at the border. “There is no wave of terrorist operatives waiting to cross overland into the United States,” Nicholas J. Rasmussen, the former director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said on Tuesday. “It simply isn’t true.” In a rare prime-time address to the nation, broadcast at 9 p.m. on Tuesday, Mr. Trump was expected to describe a national security crisis brewing at the Mexican border. It was his opportunity to directly defend his demands for $5.7 billion for a border wall — funding that congressional Democrats have refused to provide, fueling the 18-day government shutdown. Many Latin American countries have border law enforcement gaps — limited law enforcement capabilities and established smuggling routes — that extremists could exploit to harm the United States, according to the State Department’s latest Country Reports on Terrorism. But, the report concluded, that has not happened. “These vulnerabilities offer opportunities to foreign terrorist groups, but there have been no cases of terrorist groups exploiting these gaps to move operations through the region,” the report said. The latest ranking of urgent national security vulnerabilities, compiled annually by American intelligence agencies, puts the terrorist threat from the southwest border low on the list and then mentions it in a discussion of how “worldwide production of cocaine, heroin and methamphetamine is at record levels.” Over the last several days, White House and Department of Homeland Security officials have relentlessly pushed the case that the situation at the border is both a national security crisis and a humanitarian one. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Sunday that “nearly 4,000 known or suspected terrorists come into our country illegally,” and added that the “most vulnerable point of entry is at our southern border.” A day later, Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor, called those comments “an unfortunate misstatement.” At the same time, in a memo sent to journalists late Monday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, cited “more than 3,000 ‘special-interest aliens’ — individuals with suspicious travel patterns” who posed a potential national security risk. “The threat is real,” she wrote in a series of tweets on Monday afternoon. “The number of terror-watchlisted encountered at our Southern Border has increased over the last two years. The exact number is sensitive and details about these cases are extremely sensitive.” Former national security officials and analysts have pushed back — especially on the notion that terrorism suspects or their sympathizers use the southwest border as a door to the United States. “That 4,000 number was bull,” said W. Ralph Basham, who served as commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection from 2006 to 2009, during the Bush administration. “The idea that you have that many terrorists flooding across the border when you have all of these dedicated agents focused on stopping that kind of activity is ridiculous,” Mr. Basham said. A senior American counterterrorism official said on Tuesday night that an annual average of three known or suspected terrorists — all of whom were on watch lists — had tried to enter the United States at a legal border crossing or entry point over the last several years, and had been denied. A 22-page National Strategy to Combat Terrorism Travel, overseen by the staff of the National Security Council and under Mr. Trump’s signature, cited a broad commitment to making it “more difficult for terrorists to cross U.S. borders.” Sent to Congress on Dec. 21, the day before the government shutdown began, the document urged data sharing and improved coordination with foreign partners to identify terrorists before they travel. It did not urge the construction of a border wall. The only explicit reference to “border security” in the document, which was obtained on Tuesday by The New York Times, is a listing of executive orders that Mr. Trump has already signed. It also included strategies to “interdict” potential terrorists with plans to “maintain the equipment and technology” necessary to stop bad actors and share real-time information between law enforcement agencies. The 2018 assessment by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence ranked cyberattacks against utilities, communications systems and markets as the top threat to the United States. Published annually by American intelligence agencies, the ranking has not changed much over the past five years. But the government shutdown has furloughed nearly half of the work force of the Department of Homeland Security’s new Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, which is advertised as the first line of defense against network attacks. Mr. Trump has also dismantled the office of the White House cybersecurity coordinator, the job that was supposed to sew together offense and defense against the daily barrage of cyberattacks. After cyberattacks, the top threats to the United States include the rise of smaller, more deadly nuclear and biological weapons; terrorist attacks by the Islamic State and Al Qaeda; and Russian-style influence campaigns and threats to the United States’ space assets. Counterterrorism officials have long discounted the threat of Islamic State or Qaeda terrorists entering through the southwest border. In some cases, the opposite has happened, said Seamus Hughes, the deputy director of George Washington University’s program on extremism, citing homegrown American extremists who crossed into Mexico to avoid being detected on no-fly lists. Officials included the case of Jason Ludke of Milwaukee, who pleaded guilty in October to conspiring to provide material support to the Islamic State. He and a co-conspirator were headed to the border in Texas, with plans to join the Islamic State in Syria or Iraq, when they were arrested. According to the plea agreement, Mr. Ludke had planned to work under the Islamic State’s direction and control and recorded a video of himself pledging his allegiance to the terrorist group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Mr. Ludke told an undercover F.B.I. agent that he had training in jujitsu and computers, which he believed would benefit the Islamic State. Even as Mr. Trump has lobbied for the wall, he has also pressed the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security to immediately tighten security on the border. On Dec. 27, homeland security officials asked for assistance that the Pentagon later estimated would require 3,000 additional military personnel to be sent to the border, according to memos exchanged by the two departments over the last two weeks. The force could include a combination of National Guard troops, active-duty military personnel and volunteers, but that was not made clear in the documents, officials said. It remains an issue of hot debate inside the Pentagon. The Homeland Security Department also requested 146 mobile surveillance vehicles to be sent to four border states, along with enough personnel and material to install 150 additional miles of barbed concertina wire. The homeland security memo also again asked Defense Department officials to provide additional aviation support to monitor and control the flow of immigrants. The Pentagon has not yet approved the request. It included guidelines for Ms. Nielsen and other homeland security officials to “take the lead” on strategic communications intended to highlight the Pentagon’s role. It also made clear the troops would carry no weapons. Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.", "id": "5c3543eb3a125f5075c0370e", "date": "2019-01-09T00:44:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Issues First Veto After Congress Rejects Border Emergency", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday issued his first veto, rejecting legislation to overturn his declaration of a national emergency to fund a wall along the southwestern border. The bill had attracted significant Republican support in Congress, a rare and notable departure from partisan solidarity. “Today, I am vetoing this resolution,” Mr. Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. “Congress has the freedom to pass this resolution, and I have the duty to veto it.” The president called the resolution “dangerous,” “reckless” and a “vote against reality.” Mr. Trump was flanked by Vice President Mike Pence, Attorney General William P. Barr and Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary. Mr. Barr said the president’s emergency order was “clearly authorized under the law” and “solidly grounded in law.” The veto, which was expected, will send the legislation back to Congress, which almost certainly does not have enough votes for an override. That means Mr. Trump’s declaration will remain in effect. Democrats were quick to condemn the president’s action. “It is no surprise that the president holds the rule of law and our Constitution in minimal regard,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement. “There is no emergency; Congress has refused to fund his wall multiple times; Mexico won’t pay for it; and a bipartisan majority in both chambers just voted to terminate his fake emergency.” To that, Speaker Nancy Pelosi added, “The House and Senate resoundingly rejected the president’s lawless power grab, yet the president has chosen to continue to defy the Constitution, the Congress and the will of the American people.” Mr. Trump has long insisted that there was a security and humanitarian crisis at the border with Mexico, an assertion that was undercut by Mr. Trump himself when he acknowledged that he could have waited to issue a declaration. But on Friday, he offered a flurry of statistics to support his contention, though many were vague. He blurred numbers that reflected a humanitarian problem with those he said represented a security issue. Democrats had seized on his earlier words and cited other government data that shows there has been no flood of criminal migrants coming into the United States. Some Republicans shared that view. But others said they opposed the president on the grounds that it was the duty of Congress to appropriate taxpayer dollars and that Mr. Trump had exceeded his authority. On Thursday, a dozen Republicans joined Senate Democrats in voting to overturn Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration, 59 to 41. “Never before has a president asked for funding, Congress has not provided it and the president then has used the National Emergencies Act of 1976 to spend the money anyway,” Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said after the vote. Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, said he thought Mr. Trump’s declaration was unconstitutional. The president said on Friday that he understood why some Republicans believed he had overreached. “They’re doing what they have to do, and I put no pressure on anybody,” Mr. Trump said. “I actually said, ‘I could have gotten some of them to come along.’ I said: ‘I want you to vote your heart. Do what you want to do. I’m not putting any pressure.’” “I’ll let them know when there’s pressure, O.K.?” he added. “And I told them that. I said, ‘When I need your vote, I’m going to let you know.’ I didn’t need the vote because we all knew it was going to be a veto, and they’re not going to be able to override. It’s going to go very quickly.” Mr. Trump has held broad sway over congressional Republicans in his first two years in office. The decision by the dozen Senate Republicans to side with Democrats on an issue central to the president’s agenda was seen as a reclaiming of the role of Congress as a coequal branch of government. Mr. Trump was undeterred by the Republican opposition and quickly signaled his next step when he tweeted “VETO!” not long after the vote. The president said on Friday that there was nothing less than an “invasion” of the United States by migrants, and he added that so many of them had been apprehended that there was “nowhere left to hold all of the people that we’re capturing.” Even if Congress fails to override the veto, the emergency declaration is already drawing court challenges. A coalition of 20 states, including California and New York, sued last month over Mr. Trump’s use of emergency powers, arguing that the president does not have the authority to divert funds for building a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending. Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said that Congress had sent a clear message that “your supposed ‘emergency’ isn’t one.” He added, “We are determined to stop his fabricated emergency in its tracks.” Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said in a statement that “even members of President Trump’s own party are beginning to realize that he is a one-man constitutional crisis.” “The president’s veto is as meaningless as his signature on the national emergency declaration,” he added. “Congress has rejected the president’s declaration, and now the courts will be the ultimate arbiter of its legality. We look forward to seeing him in court and to the shellacking that he will receive at the hands of an independent judiciary.”   ", "id": "5c8bff9049f0eacbf105d511", "date": "2019-03-15T19:38:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "16 States Sue to Stop Trump’s Use of Emergency Powers to Build Border Wall", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, on Monday challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on his border wall. The lawsuit is part of a constitutional confrontation that Mr. Trump set off on Friday when he declared that he would spend billions of dollars more on border barriers than Congress had granted him. The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in San Francisco, argues that the president does not have the power to divert funds for constructing a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending. [Read the full lawsuit here.] Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border. “Probably the best evidence is the president’s own words,” he said, referring to Mr. Trump’s speech on Feb. 15 announcing his plan: “I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it much faster.” Here’s how President Trump’s border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations. The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests. “Contrary to the will of Congress, the president has used the pretext of a manufactured ‘crisis’ of unlawful immigration to declare a national emergency and redirect federal dollars appropriated for drug interdiction, military construction and law enforcement initiatives toward building a wall on the United States-Mexico border,” the lawsuit says. Congress is on its own separate track to challenge the president’s declaration. The House of Representatives, now controlled by Democrats, may take a two-prong approach when it returns from a recess. One would be to bring a lawsuit of its own. Lawmakers could also vote to override the declaration that an emergency exists, but it is doubtful that Congress has the votes to override Mr. Trump’s certain veto, leaving the courts a more likely venue. Joining California and New York are Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon and Virginia. All have Democratic governors but one — Maryland, whose attorney general is a Democrat — and most have legislatures controlled by Democrats. [Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.] The dispute stems from steps Mr. Trump said he would take after lawmakers granted him only $1.375 billion for new border barriers, legislation he signed last week to avoid another government shutdown. Mr. Trump asserted the power to tap three additional pots of money on his own: $600 million from a Treasury Department asset forfeiture fund for law enforcement priorities; about $2.5 billion from a military antidrug account, most of which would first be siphoned from other military programs the Pentagon has yet to identify; and $3.6 billion in military construction funds he said he could redirect by invoking an emergency-powers statute. Presidents have invoked emergency-powers statutes nearly five dozen times since Congress enacted the National Emergencies Act of 1976, but never before has one been used to make an end-run around Congress after it rejected funding for a particular policy. But as the debate over Mr. Trump’s action shifts to courtrooms, legal experts warned that its fate may turn less on such high constitutional principle and more on complex legal issues — from whether plaintiffs can establish that the case is properly before the courts, to how to interpret several statutes. “Even though Trump’s political maneuver to get around an uncooperative Congress looks like it stretches the Constitution, the questions presented in court will raise ordinary and complicated issues of administrative law,” said Peter M. Shane, an Ohio State University law professor and co-author of a separation-of-powers casebook. Two cases had already been filed after Mr. Trump’s announcement on Feb. 15 — one by the nonprofit watchdog group Public Citizen, representing several Texas landowners and a Texas environmental group, and the other a case jointly brought by the Center for Biological Diversity, Defenders of Wildlife and the Animal Legal Defense Fund. At least two other lawsuits are expected to be filed later this week. The American Civil Liberties Union has announced its intention to file a case, but has not yet publicly identified its client. The other case will be brought by Protect Democracy, another watchdog group, and the Niskanen Center, a center-right policy institute, on behalf of El Paso County and the Border Network for Human Rights. Many critics have challenged whether an emergency truly exists on the Southern border that a wall would solve, pointing to government data showing that the number of people crossing illegally has dropped significantly over the past generation and that most drugs are smuggled through ports of entry. The president has argued, without proof, that the emergency declaration is warranted because the migrants “invading” the United States across the Mexico border have caused epidemics of crime and drug use. Legal specialists expected the Justice Department to urge a court not to consider facts about the border or Mr. Trump’s words, but rather to defer to the president’s decision. The courts have a long history of being reluctant to substitute their own judgment for the president’s about a security threat. The Trump administration will have a powerful argument to invoke: In the National Emergencies Act, Congress defined no standard for what conditions have to be met before a president may determine that a qualifying crisis exists. But before a judge could weigh whether Mr. Trump invoked the statute legitimately, he or she would have to decide whether the dispute is properly before the court in the first place. Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers. But it is not clear whether any of the fencing will be built in California or New Mexico, two of the states in the lawsuit, and it certainly will not be built in other states involved in the litigation, like New York, New Jersey or Hawaii. Mr. Becerra, California’s attorney general, suggested that plaintiffs in the states’ lawsuits have standing for reasons that are unrelated to whether any portions of Mr. Trump’s wall will be built in their territory, arguing that “the president’s unconstitutional action could cause harms in many parts of the country.” Here’s what we know about what’s happening at the border. People in California and other plaintiff states could “lose funding that they paid for with their tax dollars, money that was destined for drug interdiction or for the Department of Defense for military men and women and military installations,” he said in the interview. Further complicating matters, the administration has said it intends to spend the funds in sequence, starting with the $1.375 billion Congress appropriated, and reaching the emergency-power military-construction fund last. The Justice Department is likely to argue that if no disputed spending is imminent, the case is not ripe for litigation and should be dismissed. Ian Bassin, the executive director of Protect Democracy, said that El Paso County would probably argue that its economy was being harmed by Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration because it wrongfully signaled to businesses and potential tourists that they should stay away. The Justice Department declined to comment on the wave of lawsuits. Mr. Trump has said he expected to be sued and to lose in lower courts, but he predicted he would eventually prevail before the Supreme Court. But plaintiffs can also challenge whether the administration is interpreting several statutes correctly. The provision that gives the secretary of defense authority to transfer some Pentagon money into the antidrug account Mr. Trump is then planning to tap, for example, says its authority may be used “in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress” — raising the question of whether extra funding for border barriers counts as such a forbidden item. And the emergency-powers statute Mr. Trump plans to use permits military construction spending in an emergency that requires the use of the armed forces for projects “to support such use.” That has been used before to build up foreign military bases in a war effort, but litigants challenge whether a permanent wall to help civilian agencies police the border qualifies under that wording. “Judges will certainly be aware of the larger institutional context when they address those technical issues, but that awareness will not, by itself, determine how the legal questions get resolved,” Mr. Shane said. An earlier version of this article misidentified one of the states involved in the litigation. Washington State is not a party to the suit. Sheryl Stolberg contributed reporting. Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.   ", "id": "5c6b523f3a125f5075c0a529", "date": "2019-02-19T00:46:29+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "As Congress Passes Spending Bill, Trump Plans National Emergency to Build Border Wall", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump will declare a national emergency as early as Friday to bypass Congress and build his long-promised wall along the nation’s southwestern border even as he agreed to sign a spending package that does not finance it, White House officials said Thursday. The announcement came just minutes before voting began on the spending measure, which then cleared both houses, ending a two-month war of attrition that closed much of the federal government for 35 days and threatened a second shutdown on Friday. The Senate passed it 83 to 16, and the House followed later in the evening, 300 to 128. But if he declares a national emergency to access billions of dollars for his wall, Mr. Trump could instigate a constitutional clash over who controls the federal purse and test the bounds of presidential authority in a time of divided government. Democrats and some Republicans instantly condemned the move, with some vowing to challenge it through legislation and lawsuits. [Trump will declare a national emergency. What happens next?] The president’s plan would combine money included in the spending package for fencing along the border with funds that he can divert from other programs using traditional presidential discretion on top of still other money he would tap by declaring an emergency. Altogether, an administration official said, Mr. Trump would be able to dedicate about $8 billion for barriers, more than the $5.7 billion that Congress refused to give him. “President Trump will sign the government funding bill, and as he has stated before, he will also take other executive action — including a national emergency — to ensure we stop the national security and humanitarian crisis at the border,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “The president is once again delivering on his promise to build the wall, protect the border and secure our great country.” Mr. Trump’s announcement capped hours of last-minute drama as he came under pressure on Thursday morning to not sign the spending legislation from conservative figures like Laura Ingraham, who denounced it on Twitter as a “monstrosity” and a “Total SCAM!” A balky president was concerned that signing the measure could impose restraints on his ability to tap other funds and was urged by his chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, to tell Republican leaders to instead pass a short-term bill to keep the government open while reopening negotiations, according to a Republican briefed on the situation. Such a move would have unraveled the delicate bipartisan balance favored by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who wanted to move beyond the wall fight. In a telephone conversation on Thursday, Mr. Trump asked Mr. McConnell whether the spending measure included any hidden provisions or “land mines,” and the senator reassured him it did not, according to a person familiar with the call. Similarly, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, and White House lawyers told him that he could still move money around, and Ms. Nielsen said that the spending package was actually better than a short-term measure. Mr. McConnell argued that it was a win over Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Ultimately, Mr. Trump was persuaded to sign the bipartisan spending measure after all, and at least some close to the president doubted that he was ever really wavering and instead was just enjoying the suspense. But Mr. McConnell chose not to take a chance, rushing to the floor and interrupting a colleague’s speech to announce Mr. Trump’s decision, in effect locking it in before he could change his mind. In agreeing to end the spending fight for now, however, Mr. Trump essentially started a new one with his vow to declare a national emergency, one that crosses party and ideological lines as liberals and conservatives alike objected to what they called presidential overreach. The Senate is expected to vote on a border bill to prevent a government shutdown. Seven Senate Democrats, including four announced or possible presidential candidates, immediately introduced legislation intended to block Mr. Trump from diverting money from disaster relief for the wall. Some House Democrats, including Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, began endorsing a joint resolution to essentially nullify a national emergency declaration. A parade of liberal advocacy organizations sent out pre-written statements promising to challenge any such declaration in court as “an outrageous abuse of power” by an “unstable and increasingly autocratic” president, as one of the groups, Public Citizen, put it. “The president is doing an end run around Congress,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters. She suggested that Mr. Trump was setting a precedent for future Democratic presidents to act on issues like gun control — precisely the scenario that scares Republicans. “You want to talk about a national emergency, let’s talk about today,” Ms. Pelosi said, reminding Mr. Trump that it was the anniversary of the shooting massacre last February at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Seventeen students and staff members were killed. “That’s a national emergency. Why don’t you declare that emergency, Mr. President? I wish you would.” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, echoed her criticism and said Congress would defend its prerogatives. “The public was more opposed to the emergency declaration than they were to the wall,” he said in a brief interview. “And they were opposed to the wall.” About a half-dozen Senate Republicans quickly spoke out against the move, as well. “I don’t think this is a matter that should be declared a national emergency,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. “We as legislators are trying to address the president’s priority. What we’re voting on now is perhaps an imperfect solution, but it’s one we could get consensus on.” Senator Susan Collins of Maine said such a declaration was “of dubious constitutionality,” while Senator Marco Rubio of Florida called it “a bad idea.” Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said, “We have a government that has a Constitution that has a division of power, and revenue raising and spending power was given to Congress.” Still, other Republicans backed Mr. Trump, including an ally, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, as well as Senator Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, who faces re-election next year. “He feels that declaring a national emergency gives him that flexibility that he wants and needs, so I’m supportive of that,” Ms. Capito said of the president. “For goodness’ sake, we tried for 35 days in December and January, right, to get the Democrats to do what everyone knows needs to happen except Democrats,” said Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio. “I support the national emergency declaration 100 percent.” Among the Republicans who privately warned Mr. Trump against an emergency declaration was Mr. McConnell, who expects that House Democrats will pass a resolution terminating it in a form that the Republican leader cannot block from a floor vote. At least five or six Republican senators are likely to vote against the president, making a majority along with the Democrats, and potentially forcing Mr. Trump to veto it. [Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.] A person familiar with the discussions said that Mr. McConnell said that he has warned Mr. Trump that he has less than two weeks to try to persuade wavering Republicans to support his national emergency effort, otherwise he will face the prospect of a bipartisan rebuke by Congress. The spending legislation that passed on Thursday drew strong bipartisan votes in a Congress that has been deeply divided along party lines. In the House, 213 Democrats and 87 Republicans voted yes, meaning that Democrats were unable to pass it by themselves because they lost 19 of their own. Most Republicans, 109 in all, voted no. Ms. Pelosi, using nearly a dozen pens to sign the final bill, applauded the bipartisan majority, calling it “quite a remarkable show.” In the Senate, most of the 16 no votes were by Republicans, along with four Democratic presidential candidates — Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. The package includes the seven remaining bills to keep the remainder of the government open through the rest of the fiscal year at the end of September. House and Senate negotiators unveiled the 1,159-page bill on Wednesday just before midnight, leaving little time for lawmakers to actually digest its contents. The border security compromise tucked into the bill is perhaps the most stinging legislative defeat of Mr. Trump’s presidency. It provides money for 55 miles of steel-post fencing, essentially the same deal that Mr. Trump rejected in December. The measure prohibits construction in certain areas along the Rio Grande Valley and includes a provision, pushed by Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas, granting communities on the border time to weigh in on the location and design of the fencing. The bill also prohibits funds from being used to keep lawmakers from visiting and inspecting Department of Homeland Security detention centers, following a number of highly publicized instances where Democratic lawmakers tried to visit detention centers and were turned away. Lawmakers were drawn by the other six parts of the spending package that finance a number of agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service, which is in the middle of tax-filing season, and the Commerce Department. Allocations include $77 million to address the opioid epidemic, as well as money for natural disasters, including nearly $4 billion to wild-land fire programs and $12.6 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s disaster relief fund. The package also negates an executive order that Mr. Trump signed to freeze pay for federal civilian workers, and instead extends a 1.9 percent pay increase. Vice President Mike Pence, cabinet officials and other high-level political appointees will receive raises of about $10,000 a year that had been frozen during the shutdown. Negotiators failed to resolve other matters, including back pay for federal contractors caught in the middle of the shutdown and an extension of the Violence Against Women Act, which expires Friday — although grants under the act are funded in the spending bill. Mr. Trump’s aides have told him he can add to the $1.375 billion by reallocating money from other related programs using his traditional discretion but a national emergency would allow him to access even more money. Exactly how that would work was still being debated; there were multiple drafts of the emergency order circulating within the government this week. A Defense Department official said one likely scenario would be to divert up to $2.5 billion in counternarcotics funds to the Army Corps of Engineers. The administration would then transfer existing federal land along the border to the Defense Department and acquire or condemn private land. The Army Corps could then go ahead and build a wall or other barrier to secure the Defense Department’s property using the newly diverted funds. Dozens of miles of barrier could be built this way, according to the official, who asked not to be identified discussing alternatives before the White House was ready to disclose a specific plan. Legal experts have said Mr. Trump can muster serious arguments that he can declare a national emergency under current law, but it would almost surely prompt a court challenge from critics arguing that he is usurping two centuries of congressional control over spending. Under Article I of the Constitution, Congress has the power to appropriate funds. “No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law,” it says. But Congress has passed laws in the past providing presidents with authority in national emergencies, laws that remain on the books. Indeed, 31 national emergencies declared by Mr. Trump and his predecessors remain active. Legal challenges could ultimately lead to a confrontation at the Supreme Court. The court is led by a five-member conservative majority, but it has shown skepticism of presidential excesses in recent years, reining in both President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama when the justices concluded they had overstepped their authority. Peter Baker and Emily Cochrane reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York. Reporting was contributed by Sheryl Gay Stolberg, Nicholas Fandos, Eric Schmitt, Catie Edmondson, Annie Karni and Michael Tackett. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   ", "id": "5c65cb803a125f5075c09c4d", "date": "2019-02-14T20:10:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Border Wall, Illinois, Colin Kaepernick: Your Friday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. President Trump declared a national emergency to try and build a border wall that Congress refused to give him. “We’re going to confront the national security crisis on our southern border, and we’re going to do it one way or the other,” he said in a televised announcement at the White House, above. “It’s an invasion,” he added. “We have an invasion of drugs and criminals coming into our country.” Nearly all of Mr. Trump’s claims about the southern border were misleading, exaggerated or false. House Democrats plan to introduce legislation to block the president’s move. If approved by Congress, it would put the president in the position of issuing the first veto of his presidency. Here’s what might happen next. A last-minute tantrum by Mr. Trump nearly derailed a deal to avert another government shutdown and forced the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, to accept an emergency declaration. We have a behind-the-scenes look at how it all came to a head. _____ 2. The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether the Trump administration can add a question about citizenship to the next census questionnaire. A decision is expected before census forms are printed in June. Critics say that adding the question would undermine the accuracy of the census because both legal and unauthorized immigrants might refuse to fill out the form. About 6.5 million people might decide not to participate, according to one government estimate. That could reduce Democratic representation when congressional districts are drawn in 2021 and affect the distribution of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal spending. _____ 3. Amazon was long accustomed to highly deferential treatment from localities across the country. But according to dozens of interviews this week, it badly misjudged how it would be received in New York. Thursday’s abrupt announcement that the tech company was canceling a deal to build a new campus in Long Island City, Queens, capped several days of intense behind-the-scenes maneuvering among government officials and Amazon executives. We took a look at how the deal collapsed. New York was one of two cities chosen for new Amazon campuses. Northern Virginia is keeping Amazon’s 25,000 jobs, and it wants you to know it. _____ 4. As the possibility grows of Britain leaving the E.U. with no deal, one country is seeing it as a beacon of hope: Many in Ireland believe a no-deal Brexit could lead to the country’s reunification with Northern Ireland. “The sense of a slow momentum toward Irish reunification has become a fast momentum now,” said an English economist based in Londonderry, Northern Ireland, where a defaced “Welcome to Northern Ireland” sign can be seen, above. But lurking in the background of the debate is the possibility that the imposition of a hard border between Britain and Ireland could reignite the violence that largely ended in 1998. And even still, the majority of voters in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic would need to back reunification in a public referendum — and the British government has discretion over when to call a vote. Separately, check out our British-Irish dialect quiz to see what it says about where you’re from. (You can still play along even if you weren’t raised there.) _____ 5. A former warehouse employee whose relatives said he had recently lost his job stormed through his old workplace in suburban Chicago on Friday, killing five people and injuring five police officers. The gunman, whom the authorities identified as Gary Martin, 45, was killed in an exchange of gunfire with officers. _____ 6. The N.F.L. and Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, have settled a case accusing the league of colluding to keep him off a team. Mr. Kaepernick, above center, has not played in the N.F.L. since the 2016 season, when he ignited a protest movement against racism and police brutality by taking a knee during the national anthem. He became a free agent in March 2017. As a parade of quarterbacks found work, he filed a grievance asserting that the league’s owners had conspired to keep him out because of his protests. The terms of the settlement were not disclosed. The league also settled a similar claim lodged by another player, Eric Reid, above right, who knelt alongside Kaepernick and went unsigned for a period. _____ 7. Terminally ill federal prisoners have long had the option of applying for what is called compassionate release — at least in theory. But in practice, that reprieve has come too late for many. An analysis of federal data by The New York Times and The Marshall Project found that 266 inmates who had applied from 2013 to 2017 had died, either after being denied or while still waiting for a decision. During the same period, the bureau approved only 6 percent of applications. One of the provisions of the new criminal justice law signed by President Trump in December gives inmates the ability to appeal directly to the courts. Steve Cheatham, 59, seen above with his wife, did just that, filing a petition last month so that he could go home to die. He was among the first to be granted release under the new law — but he died before he could make it home. _____ 8. First stop: Puerto Rico. Our new 52 Places Traveler started his yearlong journey there, one and a half years after Hurricane Maria devastated the island. He knew he would see progress, but “what I didn’t expect to see were the omnipresent smiles, the sense of optimism shared by so many people I met,” he writes. Above, crowds pour into the streets during an informal Bomba concert. Explore the cities, countries, regions and states on this year’s list of “52 Places to Go in 2019” through these books. And our previous 52 Places Traveler writes about experiencing pop culture shock after a year of traveling by herself. _____ 9. Meg Ryan and the romantic comedy genre were synonymous from the late 1980s through the 1990s. But harsh reaction to an erotic thriller in 2003 compelled her to step into a less public, far happier life. For the debut of our new, extended Talk column, David Marchese spoke with Ms. Ryan about the future of romantic comedies, the burden of celebrity and leaving it all behind. “The feeling with Hollywood was mutual,” she said. Here are eight things we learned from the interview. _____ 10. Finally, we end the week with a test of wits. Can you name the Mars rover mission that came to an end this week, the Democrat who entered the 2020 presidential race during a snowstorm or the breed of dog who took home best in show at the Westminster Dog Show? Take our quiz to find out. Perhaps picking up one of these  nine new books we recommend or catching up on TV is more your speed. No matter what you do, have a great weekend. _____ We’ll be off Monday for the Presidents’ Day holiday. See you Tuesday. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c6740323a125f5075c0a013", "date": "2019-02-15T22:40:23+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Border Wall, North Korea, Chicago: Your Tuesday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The House passed a resolution to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, with a handful of Republicans joining Democrats. The resolution will be taken up by mid-March in the Senate. Three Republican senators have already declared their support, just one short of the number needed to send the legislation to the president’s desk. Above, wall construction at the border in El Paso last week. While it is unlikely that there would be enough votes to overturn a promised presidential veto, the resolution does assert Congress’s constitutional authority over spending, and its passage could bolster numerous lawsuits that maintain that Mr. Trump’s declaration is an illegitimate end run around Congress’s power of the purse. _____ 2. President Trump may be willing to ease U.S. demands on North Korea, at least for now. Mr. Trump and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, exchanged fiery threats in 2017, but in the second round of talks, the president wants a deal — and appears to be willing to shift his administration’s goals to reach one, from immediate dismantlement of the North’s arsenal to limits on its size and reach. Above, Mr. Trump arriving in Hanoi, Vietnam, on Tuesday. The two leaders will have dinner together on Wednesday night (which is early Wednesday Eastern Time), and then a formal one-on-one meeting. Here’s what’s at stake. In an Op-Ed essay, Susan Rice, the national security adviser under President Barack Obama, sees hope for progress if Mr. Trump empowers the administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun. _____ 3. Capitol Hill was busy.  Michael Cohen, pictured above, testified for the first of several days. President Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer was behind closed doors today, and he’ll have a public session before a House committee Wednesday beginning at 10 a.m. Eastern (we’ll have it live) and another private session on Thursday. A Florida congressman, Matt Gaetz, apparently unnerved by reports that Mr. Cohen would describe the president’s possible criminal conduct and go into “granular detail” about the plan to pay hush money to Stormy Daniels, tweeted a threat at him: “Do your wife & father-in-law know about your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I wonder if she’ll remain faithful when you’re in prison. She’s about to learn a lot…” Separately, big pharma faced a day of reckoning. Seven pharmaceutical executives defended high drug prices at a Senate hearing, insisting they were not profiteering. Their solution: Keep list prices high, but add caps on out-of-pocket costs paid by patients and let insurers pick up the difference. _____ 4. Mark Harris, the North Carolina Republican whose congressional campaign paid for an absentee ballot effort rife with misconduct, said he would not run in a new election. Mr. Harris, pictured above at a hearing last week, attributed his decision to his health and said the Ninth District deserved “to have someone at full strength during the new campaign.” The state board has not yet set a timetable for the new election, and Democrats are expected to mount an aggressive campaign behind Dan McCready, their candidate in last fall’s race. _____ 5. Chicago voters headed to the polls today to choose a new mayor in one of the most wide-open elections the city has seen. The blur of 14 candidates has no clear favorite. Our National desk sees a high likelihood of a runoff. Here’s the latest. Polls close at 7 p.m. local time (8 p.m. Eastern). Many African-Americans cast their votes another way: by leaving. They have moved away by the thousands every year, sick of entrenched gang violence, miserable job prospects and shuttered schools, even as new white residents flow in. _____ 6. As General Motors and Ford move toward drastic cuts, Fiat Chrysler is heading in the other direction. Despite forecasts for slowing U.S. auto sales, the Italian-American automaker plans to create 6,500 jobs by spending $4.5 billion on several Detroit plants, like the one above. The plants will produce three large Jeep models, reflecting consumers’ growing preference for bigger vehicles. But the company is trimming operations at an Illinois plant, cutting almost 1,400 jobs. _____ 7. What does Hollywood keep getting wrong about race? On today’s episode of “The Daily,” Wesley Morris, our critic at large, talks about Hollywood’s obsession with fantasies of racial reconciliation and why it’s not surprising that there are echoes of “Driving Miss Daisy,” a best picture winner 30 years ago, in this year’s winner, “Green Book,” above. Mr. Morris explored the topic of interracial friendships in film in this essay last month. _____ 8. Shot-putters might be the only athletes in the world who refer to themselves seriously as “human cannons.” Take Ryan Crouser and Joe Kovacs, for example, the reigning Olympic gold and silver medalists in the shot-put. They can heave a 16-pound ball farther than just about anyone, and their competition and friendship have become track and field’s version of a buddy flick. Mr. Crouser, above left, and Mr. Kovacs, above center, competed in New York this month. We talked to them about what it’s like to travel the world together, and bond over things like strength training and eating absurd amounts of food. _____ 9. Are some celebrity mediums fooling their audience members by researching them on social media? A group of online vigilantes is out to prove it. The Times Magazine goes inside the secret sting operations to expose celebrity psychics. One group hopes to catch them at their own game by using fake Facebook profiles as bait: The social media platform has become a clearinghouse for the kind of personal detail that psychics used to have to sweat for. If anything, “the psychics have just gotten lazier,” a member of the group told our writer. _____ 10. Finally, an ode to a different kind of culture. Homemade yogurt is central to South Asian cuisines, a cooling respite to spicy dishes or a sweet tang for desserts. But it is the starter culture that gives each yogurt its unique, familiar flavor, and generations of families around the world have their own. Our writer explores the importance of passing down yogurt’s most important ingredient and the lengths families will go to keep that narrative (and culture) going. Above, a mother and daughter in Glasgow making their family’s recipe. “There was never store-bought yogurt in our house, because none compared to my father’s velvety, tart homemade tufts,” our writer says. “They looked like icebergs in your bowl, and made your cheeks pucker pleasantly. This yogurt tasted alive.” Have a delicious evening. _____ Correction: Due to an editing error, an earlier version of the briefing misstated the president to whom Susan Rice served under. It was President Barack Obama, not President George W. Bush. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c75c81d49f0eacbf105a505", "date": "2019-02-26T23:12:01+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "At the One-Issue White House, the Standoff Over a Border Wall Displaces Other Priorities", "full_text": " White House Memo WASHINGTON — For the last month, President Trump’s public schedule has mostly been a sparse document. The one issued for Tuesday, for instance, listed only his daily intelligence briefing and lunch with the vice president. No new policy announcements. No new cabinet appointments. As the partial government shutdown enters its 33rd day, Democrats accuse Mr. Trump of hostage-taking tactics, but among the hostages has been his own presidency. Other than his single-minded pursuit of a border wall, Mr. Trump has all but put on hold advancing the rest of his agenda. It has become, as one administration official put it, a one-issue White House. “There are important things that aren’t being addressed,” said William A. Galston, who served as a domestic policy aide to President Bill Clinton. But the wall has become the singular issue for Mr. Trump because he has become convinced that his presidency is on the line. “It’s easy to come up with a list of things on the domestic front that he should be worrying about,” Mr. Galston said, “but it’s just as easy to understand why he’s not.” Senate leaders briefly raised hopes of a possible cease-fire in the shutdown on Tuesday by agreeing to hold votes on a pair of measures this week, but it appeared unlikely that either would draw the 60 votes necessary. Mr. Trump is eager to deliver his State of the Union address in the House chamber next week as originally scheduled, the most prominent platform a president has to set the terms for the coming year. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi has suggested it might be postponed or canceled if government agencies remain closed. White House officials said they were operating on the assumption that the president would still give the speech at the Capitol next Tuesday unless expressly disinvited, but if that were to happen, they had alternative options, like a televised speech delivered in the East Room of the White House. The address is being written to unveil a variety of policies, not just discuss the border dispute, which is one reason it is so important to Mr. Trump. The standoff has already forced Mr. Trump to cancel a trip to Europe to meet with global business leaders in Davos, Switzerland, at a time when the world economy faces a possible slowdown. The president has made no evident progress in filling a series of senior vacancies nor has he produced the tax-cutting plan he promised last year. He has done nothing in weeks to publicly promote priorities like fighting opioid abuse or bolstering the economy. “There is this frustration that the shutdown is interfering with the ability of Republicans — I assume Democrats feel the same way — to advance the agenda,” said Lanhee J. Chen, who was chief policy adviser to Mitt Romney’s Republican presidential campaign in 2012 and is now at Stanford University. And yet, given the new era of divided government, he added, “I’m not sure how quickly any agenda would be moving even if the government were open. That’s a sad testament about where we are as a country.” Many of Mr. Trump’s agency leaders and senior advisers, of course, are still at work. His trade negotiators are focused on brokering an agreement to ease the tariff war with China, and Mr. Trump himself met with a visiting official from North Korea to pave the way for a second summit meeting with its leader, Kim Jong-un, as early as next month. But at a time when a president is typically finishing a collection of policies in connection with the State of the Union and previewing them to build public support, some of Mr. Trump’s aides acknowledge that the president and his senior team have been almost entirely focused on the border dispute. Indeed, administration officials said the situation had the unintended benefit of making it easier for Mick Mulvaney, the newly installed acting White House chief of staff, to settle into his job because he did not have as many issues to juggle. The president, who made no public appearances on Tuesday, has kept his primary attention on the fight for the border wall for weeks, making only two unrelated out-of-town trips since the shutdown began, an unannounced stop in Iraq to visit troops at Christmas time and a quick flight to Dover Air Force Base in Delaware last weekend to pay respects to the returning remains of four Americans killed in Syria. Even a day trip to New Orleans to address farmers turned into another public pitch for the wall. Still in his inbox are a slew of important vacancies to fill, including defense secretary, interior secretary and chief of staff. His attorney general, United Nations ambassador and Environmental Protection Agency chief are all serving in an acting capacity while waiting for Senate confirmation votes of his nominees. The White House on Tuesday sent 51 judicial nominations to the Senate, returning names that had gone unacted on last year. Mr. Trump expressed no urgency when asked by reporters recently about all the acting officials in the upper echelon of his administration. “I like acting,” he said. “It gives me more flexibility.” The number of press briefings in 2018 dropped far below the number held during previous presidencies. Left uncertain is how Mr. Trump may pursue other goals. He vowed before the midterm election to pass a middle-class tax cut in the new Congress but has said little about it since then. He also vowed to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement to pressure Congress to pass his newly negotiated replacement but has yet to do so. He has similarly talked about collaborating with Ms. Pelosi’s Democrats, who just took over the House, on possible bipartisan initiatives like rebuilding the nation’s roads, bridges and other infrastructure or bringing down the cost of prescription drugs. Neither of those ideas has come up lately and it is hard to see the current impasse establishing the sort of trust that might lead to across-the-aisle cooperation. Moreover, any bitterness or ill will that lingers once the current shutdown is resolved, assuming it is, may complicate future financial negotiations when the debt ceiling needs to be raised to keep the country from defaulting on its obligations and when the current fiscal year is over at the end of September. That may depend on how the border fight turns out. Some optimists see the potential for an eventual deal between Mr. Trump and Democrats that includes money for his wall in exchange for permanent revisions to immigration laws protecting many of those who have lived in the country illegally for many years. “Hopefully, in the end, we can turn an awful situation into a legislative accomplishment for both sides,” said Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey and a leader of the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, who met recently with the president. Others are not so sure. Mr. Trump has been willing to subordinate the rest of his agenda to the border wall, analysts said, because it is so central to his political identity and his campaign for re-election next year. “The president believes that the wall represents his contract with America, certainly his contract with his supporters,” said Mr. Galston, who is now at the Brookings Institution. “He regards it, and I think probably accurately, as the issue that did more than any other to propel him to the White House. “That being the case,” he added, “this government shutdown is not over a peripheral issue that overshadows other issues. It is the most important issue, at least from the perspective of the president.” Annie Karni contributed reporting. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.    ", "id": "5c47bee43a125f5075c05c3a", "date": "2019-01-23T01:09:54+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Asks for Unity, but Presses Hard Line on Immigration", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the capital and the nation. In a nationally televised speech that toggled between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Trump presented himself as a leader who could work across party lines even as he pressed lawmakers to build a wall along the nation’s southwestern border that leaders of the newly empowered congressional Democrats have adamantly rejected. “We must reject the politics of revenge, resistance and retribution, and embrace the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise and the common good,” the president said. “Together, we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of America’s future.” Any hopes for a newfound spirit of cooperation, however, seemed elusive as the president and Democrats spent the hours before, during and after the address exchanging partisan political fire, making clear that ritualistic calls for across-the-aisle collaboration were unlikely to transform an environment that has turned increasingly toxic. Republicans jumped to their feet at the president’s calls to curb immigration, limit late-term abortions and ensure that the United States does not turn to socialism, even chanting “U-S-A, U-S-A” a couple of times as if at a Trump campaign rally. “That sounds so good,” he exulted. Speaker Nancy Pelosi, sitting behind Mr. Trump for the first time, and other Democrats largely remained in their seats without applauding and expressed only tepid enthusiasm even for his mention of goals intended to appeal to them, like infrastructure and paid parental leave. Ms. Pelosi maintained a polite, even amused smile on her face for much of the speech. But the evening was filled with political theater as the president introduced World War II veterans, Holocaust survivors, the Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, a 10-year-old cancer survivor, a police officer shot seven times at last fall’s synagogue massacre in Pittsburgh and the teary-eyed relatives of a couple killed by an illegal immigrant, all sitting with the first lady, Melania Trump. The change in the power structure in a Capitol long dominated by men was on display as Ms. Pelosi and scores of House Democratic women wore white, the color of the suffrage movement, reflecting the fact that 131 women were sworn into the new Congress, the most in American history. When Mr. Trump noted this breakthrough, the women leapt to their feet, cheering, dancing and high-fiving each other. “That’s really great,” he said. “Congratulations.” He made no direct mention of the issues that may yet come to dominate the year, such as the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or the parallel inquiries that House Democrats intend to conduct into his campaign’s ties with Russia and efforts to impede investigations. Instead, he alluded to them only in passing, but pointedly. “An economic miracle is taking place in the United States,” he said, “and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations.” But Mr. Trump indicated no retreat from his almost singular pursuit of a border wall, directly taking on Ms. Pelosi, who has called it “immoral.” He devoted 15 minutes of the hour-and-22-minute speech to immigration with no concession to Democratic priorities like a path to citizenship for immigrants brought into the country illegally as children. “This is a moral issue,” Mr. Trump said as Ms. Pelosi sat unmoved behind him. “No issue better illustrates the divide between America’s working class and America’s political class than illegal immigration,” he added. “Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.” In the official Democratic response, Stacey Abrams, who lost a close race for governor of Georgia in November, scorned the idea of unity from a president who has practiced the politics of division. “We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan,” she said, “but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart.” Ms. Abrams, who is African-American, challenged Mr. Trump’s history of racial provocation, saying, “We must hold everyone from the highest offices to our families accountable for racist words and deeds and call racism what it is — wrong.” The president’s speech, built on a theme of “choosing greatness,” came at a pivotal moment halfway through the president’s term as he seeks to regain momentum after the midterm election defeat that handed control of the House to Democrats and after his failed effort to use a partial government shutdown to extract money for the wall. Stung by his retreat on the government shutdown, Mr. Trump has hardly been in the mood for collaboration with the other party. As he and his team drafted his address in recent days, he has groused about the text, complaining that it was too gentle on Democrats, according to people briefed on the matter. New York Times reporters analyzed the 45th president’s second State of the Union Speech on Tuesday. The president insisted on sharpening some of the lines in the speech and rebuffed aides, who urged him to congratulate Ms. Pelosi on her ascension to the speakership. During an off-the-record lunch for television anchors on Tuesday before the speech, Mr. Trump offered scathing assessments of a number of leading Democrats, including some lining up to run against him next year. He dismissed former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as “dumb,” called Senator Chuck Schumer of New York a “nasty son of a bitch” and mocked Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, who he said “choked like a dog” at a news conference where Mr. Northam tried to explain a racist yearbook photograph, according to multiple people in the room. Democrats did not wait for the address to pan it. “It seems every year the president wakes up and discovers the desire for unity on the morning of the State of the Union, then the president spends the other 364 days of the year dividing us, and sowing a state of disunion,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. He added, “The blatant hypocrisy of this president calling for unity is that he is one of the chief reasons Americans feel so divided now.” Mr. Trump fired back at Mr. Schumer via Twitter. “I see Schumer is already criticizing my State of the Union speech, even though he hasn’t seen it yet,” the president wrote. “He’s just upset that he didn’t win the Senate, after spending a fortune, like he thought he would. Too bad we weren’t given more credit for the Senate win by the media!” Mr. Trump arrived at this point in his presidency with the approval of just 37 percent of the public, according to Gallup. In the past four decades, the only times a president headed into a State of the Union address with as little or less support were in 1983 when Ronald Reagan was struggling with a painful recession and in 2007 and 2008 when George W. Bush was trying to turn around the Iraq war. Mr. Trump is the only president in the history of Gallup polling to have never drawn the support of a majority of the public at any point in his first two years in office. But while he is the fourth president in a row to lose at least one house of Congress during a midterm election, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama both bounced back to win re-election, and Mr. Trump has privately expressed confidence that he will, too. transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Alexandra Leigh Young and Annie Brown, and edited by Lisa Tobin Like President Trump, the last three presidents all lost at least one house of Congress at a midterm election. Their subsequent speeches offered a blueprint for what came next. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: In his first State of the Union address since losing control of Congress, the president repeatedly spoke of bipartisan unity. But a history of these speeches suggests that it’s everything else he said that will best predict how he actually governs. It’s Wednesday, February 6. Mark? mark landler Yeah, Michael? michael barbaro Hey. mark landler How are you? michael barbaro Good. Happy State of the Union. mark landler Same to you. michael barbaro I really don’t like this language people use, “S.O.T.U.” mark landler Yeah, it’s really awful. michael barbaro Awful. So let’s not do that. mark landler It’s kind of a dismal evening anyway, and calling it “S.O.T.U.” just sort of deepens the gloom that hangs over the whole thing. michael barbaro And yeah, why is it so gloomy? mark landler I don’t know. I mean, you wouldn’t believe it— there were, like, 50 people in the meeting today for S.O.T.U. planning. michael barbaro What did we say about that word? mark landler O.K. michael barbaro O.K., everybody good? Mark, what’s the significance of this particular State of the Union in your mind? mark landler For President Trump, this is the first State of the Union address he’s delivered since his party was swept out of power in the midterm election last November. And so it’s the first time he’s facing a divided Congress. And the president is really forced to conduct a very public reset of his presidency to take account of a divided Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) Mr. President, Mr. Speaker. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler It’s not a unique situation, by any stretch. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Madame Speaker, Vice President Cheney, members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow citizens. archived recording (president barack obama) Members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow Americans. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler All three of Mr. Trump’s immediate predecessors faced the same situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) Again, we are here in the sanctuary of democracy. ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): The rite of custom brings us together at a defining hour. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler With State of the Union addresses they gave after their party suffered defeats in midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): When decisions are hard and courage is needed. archived recording (president barack obama) I believe we can, and I believe we must. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Each of them approached the situation in different ways. And in each case, it provided a sort of a telling glimpse, a blueprint for how they were going to behave over the coming two years of their presidencies. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And this is the business before us tonight. archived recording (president barack obama) That’s what the people who sent us here expect of us. archived recording (president bill clinton) Well, my fellow Americans, that’s my agenda for America’s future. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro So take us through the examples of these last three presidents who have given these speeches after they lost a midterm election. How have they approached the speech? mark landler Well, let’s start with Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton gave his State of the Union address in January 1995 — [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Democrats lost the House, they lost the Senate. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Three months after his party suffered a devastating defeat in the midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording The Democratic chairman David Wilhelm said, simply, we got our butts kicked. Not one incumbent Republican lost. The anti-Clinton tide was fueled largely by frustration. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Time Magazine put him on the cover under the headline “The Incredible Shrinking President.” Journalists even asked him whether he was still relevant anymore. And so this relatively young, untested president was dealt a very serious blow. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Mr. Speaker, the president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And he really came into his State of the Union address acknowledging that fact. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) If we agree on nothing else tonight, we must agree that the American people certainly voted for change in 1992 and in 1994. As I look out at you, I know how some of you must have felt in 1992. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Bill Clinton took a very contrite tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) In this effort, I am trying to say that I have made my mistakes. And I have learned, again, the importance of humility in all human endeavor. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler So this was a president who admitted that he had screwed up and he pledged to learn from this experience. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) I think we all agree that we have to change the way the government works. Let’s make it smaller, less costly and smarter— leaner and not meaner. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And even more than that, he pledged to take seriously the message that this incoming Republican majority brought with it. He acknowledged that, to some extent, the era of big government was over. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) And we’re working on getting rid of unnecessary regulations and making them more sensible. The programs and regulations that have outlived their usefulness should go. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Bill Kristol, a conservative commentator, commented after this speech was given that it was the most conservative State of the Union address any Democratic president had ever delivered. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president bill clinton) This is a very, very great country. And our best days are still to come. Thank you, and God bless you all. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro So how much did Clinton’s message at this State of the Union— this conciliatory tone, these promises of bipartisanship and an acknowledgment of this conservative agenda— how much did it predict how he was going to govern for the next two years? mark landler So, in fact, Bill Clinton did adjust. He did govern more as a centrist. He did pursue policies where he tried to find some common ground. And in the end, by moving toward his opponents, he wound up being very successful. And two years later, he was re-elected by a comfortable margin over his Republican opponent, Bob Dole. And Newt Gingrich, his antagonist— the man who sat behind him that night at the speech— wound up being the wounded figure, because he had gone to war with President Clinton over a government shutdown, and he ended up shouldering the blame, not Clinton. In other words, the State of the Union actually showed that this was a president who was learning on the job, who was willing to adjust course, and came out of it victorious. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Washington turned upside down. The Democrats in, Rumsfeld out— tonight on “Washington Week.” ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): If you look at race by race, it was close. The cumulative effect, however, was not too close. It was a thumping. Even the president could not find a silver lining this time. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Twelve years later, Bill Clinton’s successor, George W. Bush, found himself in a very similar situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Republicans licked their wounds. Don Rumsfeld lost his job. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler The Iraq War has gone very badly. He’s been widely condemned for his handling of Hurricane Katrina. And in the midterm elections of 2006, the voters deliver a brutal message. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording I think you could say the driving force was that old refrain, “I’m mad as hell, and I’m not going to take it anymore.” And that’s what we heard. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler They send Congress back into the control of the Democrats. And President Bush turns up for his State of the Union address. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (speaker nancy pelosi) The president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Facing House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And tonight, I have the high privilege and distinct honor of my own as the first president to begin the State of the Union message with these words: Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK] He’s extremely gracious to her. He congratulates her. He refers to her father, who was a Democratic lawmaker from Baltimore, and the pride he would have felt if he had seen his daughter presiding in the chamber that night. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): But nothing could compare with the sight of his only daughter, Nancy. [END PLAYBACK] And then he delivers a speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Some in this chamber are new to the House and the Senate, and I congratulate the Democrat majority. [END PLAYBACK] Where he takes account of the bitterness that Iraq has caused and the opposition that it has stirred up. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): With the distance of time, we find ourselves debating the causes of conflict and the course we have followed. [END PLAYBACK] Not just among Democrats, but among members of his own party. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): I’ve spoken with many of you in person. I respect you and the arguments you’ve made. We went into this largely united in our assumptions and in our convictions. And whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure. [END PLAYBACK] And he, in effect, pleads for more time. He says that in this difficult situation, he and his military advisers have decided on a troop surge. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): So we’re deploying reinforcements of more than 20,000 additional soldiers and Marines to Iraq. [END PLAYBACK] And he basically asks for time to get this war right. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our country is pursuing a new strategy in Iraq, and I ask you to give it a chance to work. And I ask you to support our troops in the field and those on their way. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro So President Bush uses this speech to acknowledge the unhappiness in the country. But unlike Clinton after the midterms, he doesn’t change his approach. In fact, he leans into it and doubles down on it when it comes to the war in Iraq. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our cause in the world is right. And tonight, that cause goes on. God bless. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And he also sticks to it afterward. So this speech is a very accurate blueprint for what the rest of the Bush presidency looks like. He does send the troops, they wind up having more success than many of the critics expected, and this becomes the way the United States winds down the war in Iraq. He really lays out the end game in Iraq in this State of the Union address. It actually proves to be a very, very accurate predictor of how things play out. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Right now, we’re looking at a live picture of the U.S. Capitol, where the Republicans will seize control of the House of Representatives. Picking up more than 60 seats now. Ohio’s John Boehner now stands to become the next speaker, replacing Nancy Pelosi. He already got a call. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And then came President Obama, who spoke before Congress in January 2011, three months after his party lost control of Congress. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording The American people have sent an unmistakable message to him tonight, and that message is— change course. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And left this young president very much on his back foot. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president barack obama) Tonight, I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress as well as your new speaker, John Boehner. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro And how did Obama’s State of the Union confront that? mark landler Well, Obama responds to this setback, to this defeat, not by being contrite or acknowledging error. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president barack obama) For the challenges we face are bigger than party, bigger than politics. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler But by, in effect, pushing past it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president barack obama) At stake right now is not who wins the next election— after all, we just had an election. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler archived recording (president barack obama) At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country or somewhere else. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro Essentially, by ignoring it. mark landler Indeed. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president barack obama) The future is ours to win. But to get there, we can’t just stand still. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler So it was a very soaring message that was in keeping with the way President Obama ran for office, but one that didn’t necessarily acknowledge the defeat that his party had just suffered. michael barbaro So does the way that Obama responds to this division in this speech— by kind of ignoring it, by not fully acknowledging the new political terrain he has to confront— does this forecast how he ends up working with Congress for the next two years? mark landler I think it does quite accurately. Because if you look at what happens in the years after this, President Obama never really does form a good working relationship. He never really does roll up his sleeves and attempt to find much common ground with Republicans in Congress. And so, to some extent, these grand ideas remain just that— grand ideas, because he wasn’t able to work with Republicans to translate them into more of a tangible reality. michael barbaro So in that sense, the speech was a very honest and accurate predictor. mark landler Exactly. Indeed. michael barbaro O.K. So it is 7:52, Mark— a little over an hour before President Trump gives his State of the Union. Given the history you’ve just described, what do you expect his message to be now that he has divided government? mark landler We don’t know exactly what he’s going to say, but we do know that whatever their differences, all three of his predecessors issued a call for unity. Unity is the one theme that we can almost certainly expect to hear in virtually any State of the Union address. But what’s really interesting is less that than what’s between the lines, what’s the subtext or the nuance in the State of the Union address. That’s where you can really see what the president plans to do, how he plans to govern, what blueprint or what predicate he’s putting in place. So what’s going to be interesting in President Trump’s address is not a call for unity. It’s almost certainly going to be there. It’s the other things that are in the speech that are going to really tell you what we can expect. michael barbaro So, Mark, thank you for now. We will talk to you after Trump’s State of the Union in, I guess, an hour or two. mark landler Look forward to it. michael barbaro  So, Mark, what did President Trump do tonight? mark landler Well, when President Trump took the rostrum in the House chamber tonight — [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Thank you very much. Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He uttered the phrase “Madame Speaker” in deference to Nancy Pelosi, but he avoided giving her any further congratulations on taking up her position. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) We meet tonight at a moment of unlimited potential. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He did, nevertheless, start off with— [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) As we begin a new Congress, I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler A pretty standard call for bipartisanship and for unity. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Hoping that we will govern not as two parties, but as one nation. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He said at one point— [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Victory is not winning for our party— [END PLAYBACK] mark landler Victory is not winning for our party, victory is winning for our country. From there, he sort of segued into the economic achievements of his administration. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) In just over two years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler But at that point, he took a distinct turn in tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, and the only thing that can stop it— [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He basically said at this point— [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler There can’t be any cooperation on legislation if there’s going to be what he called ridiculous partisan investigations of his presidency. This was a reference not only to potential future investigations by Congress, but also the Mueller investigation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And he actually put a fairly menacing tone on it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Now is the time for bipartisan action. Believe it or not, we have already proven that that’s possible. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler From there, he turns to a more bipartisan issue— criminal justice reform. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Criminal justice reform— they said it couldn’t be done. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler But almost immediately— [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Now Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He then segues into immigration, talks about the virtues and importance of building a wall. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And accuses the political elite of being divided from ordinary, working-class Americans. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) While living their lives behind walls and gates and guards. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler So the language here is extremely uncompromising. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Simply put— walls work, and walls save lives. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And this toggling continues throughout the speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Two weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler At one point, he’s talking about the global coalition to force out a tyrant, an autocrat in Venezuela. And yet in his next breath— [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Here in the United States, we are alarmed by the new calls to adopt socialism in our country. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler He’s likening this new class of Democrats in Congress to socialists. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) America was founded on liberty and independence. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And saying, America will never be a socialist country. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) We are born free, and we will stay free. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro But it sounds like you think that the conciliatory language is just the obligatory language of the State of the Union, and it’s the harder-edged stuff that we should be listening to and thinking about in relation to past State of the Unions that you outlined before. mark landler I do. I think that if you look at the things the president talks about that are more conciliatory, they tend to be on the level of symbolism. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) In recent years, we have made remarkable progress in the fight against H.I.V. and AIDS. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler A campaign to fight AIDS with no dollar sign attached to it. A campaign to fight cancer in children with no specifics attached to it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) My budget will ask Congress for $500 million over the next 10 years to fund this critical, life-saving research. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler While the areas where he’s hard-edged are really the ones that matter to the future direction of governance and of his relationship with Congress. Whether he resolves this issue over funding the wall and, more broadly, whether he and the Democrats ever come to terms on immigration is really a core issue of how the rest of the Trump presidency will play out. That, much more than these conciliatory stories, these nice images, are really what matter in this speech. And I think the speechwriters were very careful to lard this speech with this kind of uplifting material. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) In 2019, we also celebrate 50 years since brave young pilots flew a quarter of a million miles through space to plant the American flag on the face of the moon. [END PLAYBACK] To make it more attractive to a broad audience while also speaking to the president’s political base. But make no mistake— this speech was targeted to the political base. It was meant to mollify that base. And I think it’s important that we not lose sight of that reality. michael barbaro So where does this speech fit into the history of State of the Unions that have come after the dawn of divided government? mark landler Well, I think what’s most significant is that there is really no acknowledgment in this speech of the changed circumstances. There’s no acknowledgment here that President Trump faces a new political reality, that he has to do business with the Democrats if he wants to get any significant legislation passed. This is the speech given by a president who is behaving very much like he did the week he was inaugurated, when he had a unified Congress under his control. michael barbaro Does that make this, then, an Obama-like State of the Union? mark landler I think the difference with President Obama is that, while he did not suggest that the defeat in the midterms was really going to change how he approached governing, he did at least acknowledge the fact that he had suffered an electoral setback in the midterms. In Mr. Trump’s case, he didn’t acknowledge the defeat he suffered in the midterm elections except in a highly indirect way. And it was actually one of the most remarkable moments of the evening. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler President Trump was talking about the increasing numbers of women in the workplace, including in Congress. And spontaneously, this group of young, female Democratic lawmakers rose in unison and began chanting “U.S.A” and cheering and clapping. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Very good. And congratulations, that’s great. [END PLAYBACK] mark landler And the president broke into a smile and appeared, in a funny way, to be taking credit for their presence in the House— which, of course, is deeply ironic, because the reason they’re in the House is because they were elected largely as a repudiation of him. So I think if you’re looking for any signs of a newly pragmatic president or a president who will take heed of some of the concerns of the opposing party, I don’t think we saw any of that in the speech tonight. And I would not expect to see any of that in his governing style over the next couple of years. michael barbaro Well, Mark, it is almost 1:00 a.m. We are really grateful to you, thank you so much. mark landler Thank you, Michael. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording (president donald trump) Thank you. God bless you. And God bless America. Thank you very much. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. On Tuesday, in the latest sign of progress toward a peace deal, leaders of the Taliban met with former high-ranking leaders of the Afghan government, including its former president in Moscow. The session excluded the leaders of Afghanistan’s current government, who the Taliban views as a US puppet but was still the most significant contact between the Taliban and Afghan leaders since the US drove the Taliban from power in 2001. In a surprising development during the negotiations, the Taliban said it now respected women’s rights, including the right to education and work, despite having banned women from public life when the group was in power. And. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording For example, you wrote in the 1990s that climate change is nothing more than a major environmental boogey man and the greenhouse effort is a controversial theory pushed by environmental groups. You still stand by those assertions? [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro During a heated confirmation hearing on Tuesday, senators from both parties questioned the past writings of Naomi Rowe, president Trump’s nominee to replace Brett Kavanaugh on the powerful federal appeals court in Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording Senator Leahy, those are statements from college, as you said, a few decades old when I think some of these issues were more hotly debated. And, no, I mean, I think the science has become much more conclusive over time. Conclusive in what way? Well, I think they’re— my understanding is that there’s an overwhelming scientific consensus that there is climate change. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro Senators repeatedly asked Rowe to explain a series of provocative columns she wrote as a college student expressing skepticism about global warming and calling equality between women and men a dangerous concept. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] archived recording A dangerous feminist ideal is that women are created equal? Senator, I very much regret that statement and I’ve always believed strongly in the equality of women and men and for equal rights and opportunities for women. I’m honestly not sure why I wrote that in college. [END PLAYBACK] michael barbaro That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. After presidents suffer setbacks in midterms, they often reach out to the victorious opposition with words of conciliation, however artificial or short-lived they may be. In Mr. Trump’s case, he opened this period of partisan power sharing with a relentless confrontation over his proposed border wall, resulting in a record-breaking 35-day partial government shutdown. That impasse nearly cost Mr. Trump his opportunity to deliver his State of the Union address, as Ms. Pelosi refused to let him come to the House chamber as long as federal agencies were closed and workers unpaid. Mr. Trump backed down and accepted a measure reopening the government for three weeks, but negotiations in the interim have made no more progress toward winning money for his wall — and the government could close again on Feb. 15. Given that, Mr. Trump’s calls for unity were almost surely destined to fall on deaf ears. Even Republicans have publicly rebuked him lately for his plans to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan, and party leaders have pressed him not to declare a national emergency bypassing Congress to build the wall. Among those invited by the president to join the first lady during the speech was Joshua Trump, a sixth-grade student from Wilmington, Del., who “has been bullied in school due to his last name,” according to the White House. Democrats were making points with their guests, as well. Among those they invited were air traffic controllers who went unpaid during the government shutdown, illegal immigrants who worked at Mr. Trump’s properties and transgender soldiers who will be banned under the president’s new policy. In addition to Ms. Abrams, other Democrats sought to get in on the action. Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is running for president, delivered her own response shortly before the speech, while Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who may also run, delivered his afterward. In his address, Mr. Trump assailed Democrats like Mr. Northam for comments in support of easing restrictions on late-term abortions and called for federal legislation cracking down on such procedures, a nod to Mr. Trump’s conservative base. He made no mention of the racist medical school yearbook picture that has threatened Mr. Northam’s political career, after aides cautioned him about raising that issue. Mr. Trump also sought to frame the opposition Democrats as too extreme, suggesting that the country was in danger of a socialist takeover. “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country,” he said, as Republican lawmakers booed. “We are born free and we will stay free. Tonight we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.” The president highlighted what he sees as the accomplishments of his first two years in office, including a growing economy, rising energy production, increased military spending, deregulation and tax cuts. He pressed Congress to approve his new trade pact with Canada and Mexico updating the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mr. Trump did not outline the traditional laundry list of new initiatives, the way other presidents have, but he did plan to make a national commitment to end transmission of the virus that causes AIDS, with a goal of stopping its spread in the United States by 2030. He repeated past calls for bipartisan measures to rebuild “America’s crumbling infrastructure,” curb the cost of prescription drugs and approve paid parental leave. The president also talked about his goal of bringing an end to the “endless wars” in places like Syria and Afghanistan, the threat he sees from Iran and his bid to force President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela to step down. He announced that he would meet for the second time with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in Vietnam on Feb. 27-28 to seek his nuclear disarmament. Mr. Trump ended his address with an uncharacteristic effort at poetry, an ode to America and its common purpose. “I am asking you to choose greatness,” he said. “No matter the trials we face, no matter the challenges to come, we must go forward together.” Michael Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Maggie Haberman and Emily Baumgaertner from Washington. Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.   ", "id": "5c5a124b3a125f5075c082a7", "date": "2019-02-05T22:46:28+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Says Predecessors Confessed Support for the Border Wall. Not True, They Say.", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — As he makes his case for building a border wall, President Trump says that his predecessors have secretly confided in him that they should have done it themselves. The only problem: All of the living presidents say that’s not true. Former President Jimmy Carter said on Monday that he never had such a conversation with Mr. Trump, making him the last of the veterans of the Oval Office to dispute the assertion. “I have not discussed the border wall with President Trump and do not support him on the issue,” Mr. Carter said in a statement. Aides to the other living presidents — Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama — have all likewise denied Mr. Trump’s claim. Former President George Bush, who died in November, was in failing health throughout Mr. Trump’s administration and did not have any discussion with the current president about substantive issues, according to people close to him. This would not be the first time Mr. Trump has bragged about conversations that never happened. In 2017, he publicly claimed that the head of the Boy Scouts called him to praise a speech as the best ever given to the organization. He also asserted that the president of Mexico had called him to say that Mr. Trump’s enforcement efforts at the border were deterring Central Americans from crossing into Mexico because they knew they could no longer get into the United States. After both the Boy Scouts leader and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico denied making such calls, the White House acknowledged that they never happened. But the president’s press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, insisted that Boy Scouts leaders and Mr. Peña Nieto had said things like that in person, just not on the telephone. Over the past two decades, there were large declines in apprehensions along the southwestern border with Mexico. In April 2017, apprehensions hit the lowest point over that time period, and in 2018 they have since increased to levels similar to those under President Barack Obama. Apprehensions at the southwestern border, by month Obama 34,647 Bush Average per month: 81,588 Trump 28,869 150,000 100,000 50,000 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 Apprehensions at the  southwestern border, by month Trump 28,869 Obama 34,647 Bush 81,588  Average per month  150,000 100,000 50,000 2001 2005 2009 2013 2017 Source: U.S. Customs and Border Protection The White House did not respond to requests on Friday or Monday to explain the president’s latest statement. A senior administration official, who insisted on anonymity to address the matter, said Mr. Trump might have been referring to public comments made by previous presidents on behalf of border security, though not the wall specifically or directly to Mr. Trump. In an interview with “Today” on NBC aired Tuesday morning, Vice President Mike Pence defended the president’s comments while suggesting that they were not based on actual conversations with his predecessors. “I know the president has said that that was his impression from previous administrations, previous presidents,” Mr. Pence said. “I know I’ve seen clips of previous presidents talking about the importance of border security, the importance of addressing the issue of illegal immigration.” The issue came up on Friday when Mr. Trump held an expansive news conference in the Rose Garden about his standoff with Congress over funding for a wall. “This should have been done by all of the presidents that preceded me,” he said. “And they all know it. Some of them have told me that we should have done it.” While in office, the younger Mr. Bush signed legislation authorizing 700 miles of fencing. But he has said that stronger border enforcement should be paired with an overhaul of rules making it possible for some of the millions of immigrants in the country illegally to stay. A spokesman said Mr. Bush had not discussed the issue with Mr. Trump. Mr. Clinton, Mr. Obama and Mr. Carter are on record opposing Mr. Trump’s wall. Mr. Trump has not interacted with any of his predecessors in any meaningful way since his inauguration. None of the five former presidents alive when Mr. Trump was elected in 2016 voted for him, even the Republicans. The elder Mr. Bush voted for Hillary Clinton, and the younger Mr. Bush told the author Mark K. Updegrove that he voted for “none of the above.” Mr. Trump has not met with any of his predecessors in two years in office. He called the younger Mr. Bush to offer condolences when his father died, and the first time he saw any of the former presidents since taking office was at the funeral a few days later. He shook Mr. Obama’s hand and Mr. Bush came over to shake his, but none of the former presidents had any extended words with the incumbent.  ", "id": "5c33f12d3a125f5075c0340a", "date": "2019-01-08T00:39:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Border Wall Deal, Amazon, Valentine’s Day: Your Thursday Evening Briefing", "full_text": " (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)  Good evening. Here’s the latest. _____ 1. A constitutional clash between President Trump and Congress appears imminent. He plans to sign the spending package Congress is rapidly approving, to keep the government open past Friday. But then, according to the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, he plans to declare a national emergency to sidestep Congress for funds to build his long-promised border wall. Above, the border fence between New Mexico and Mexico. Here’s what the declaration would mean. _____ 2. The former F.B.I. deputy director Andrew McCabe said the Justice Department discussed encouraging cabinet members to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove President Trump from office. In an interview with “60 Minutes” ahead of the publication of his memoir, Mr. McCabe said that topic was broached in 2017 by officials deeply alarmed by Mr. Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey. Above, Mr. McCabe testifying on Capitol Hill in 2017. The news came hours before the Justice Department came under new leadership. The Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s continuing Russia investigation. _____ 3. Amazon canceled its plans to build a corporate campus in New York City after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions. The finger-pointing has begun. A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. Amazon said the deal would have created 25,000 jobs, but the debate it stirred touched on the city’s very identity. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at how the resistance was empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength. Above, anti-Amazon protesters before a New York City Council hearing last month. Our business columnist notes that Amazon was forced to confront a challenge to one of its bedrock beliefs: “that being loved by customers is all that matters.” _____ 4. Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., observed a day of mourning for the 17 lives lost a year ago today in the nation’s deadliest school shooting. Some gathered for a moment of silence at 10:17 a.m. in a memorial garden. Others took solace in smaller groups, seen above. There was an early dismissal. On today’s episode of “The Daily,” four students who survived the massacre told us how it changed them. “It’s hard to differentiate what’s from the shooting and what’s from regular teenage anxiety,” one said. And in an Op-Ed essay, a third-year medical student details what it’s like in the emergency room when young gunshot victims arrive. _____ 5. In parts of the Alps, the warming climate is making glaciers disappear. The Swiss have a plan to make use of the valleys left behind. Our climate reporter and multimedia reporter traveled to the Alps to see how glacial melting is affecting hydropower. Swiss researchers are studying the newly exposed valleys, like that from the Trift glacier, above, and say some may be ideal sites to collect the diminishing meltwater — and still make power. We also looked at what would happen if the U.S. adopted seven of the most ambitious climate policies already in place around the world. In short, the country would be much of the way toward the deep decarbonization called for to avert the worst effects of climate change. _____ 6. Guatemalan police officers stood by for nine minutes as a fire raged through a locked room packed with dozens of girls. The toll: 41 young lives, and agony for the few survivors. The one above suffered burns over 95 percent of her body. Our bureau chief for Central America investigated the 2017 fire, at a government-run home for at-risk youth. It was one of the deadliest episodes in Guatemala since the end of its civil war decades ago. His interviews and review of case files reveal a pattern of physical, psychological and sexual abuse allegations at the home stretching back years. 7. Yesterday, we brought you an obituary for a robot. Today, we mourn an airplane model that once revolutionized the skies. The European aircraft maker Airbus said it would cease production of the mammoth A380. An engineering marvel, the double-decker, four-engine aircraft can carry more than 500 passengers while offering amenities like showers and a bar. But orders dwindled, with air travel shifting focus to smaller jets and regional airports, and demand from Emirates Airline, a major customer, also fell. _____ 8. Jane Austen died more than 200 years ago, but she’s still the life of at least some parties. Last month, some 300 costumed revelers gathered in Pasadena, Calif., for the annual Jane Austen Evening, one of the regular events around the country that unite the novelist’s hard-core fans and period dance enthusiasts. Our reporter and videographer captured the scene. And our Children’s Books editor offers appreciation for another author: Maurice Sendak. _____ 9. Here’s a tip for cooks at any level: You don’t always need a recipe. Our food editor, Sam Sifton, gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table, no recipe required. He suggests improvising off themes, like stir-fries, salads, braised chicken thighs or pasta bakes. Maybe seared lamb chops with butter braised potatoes, above, should be on your menu tonight. “It’s fun to cook that way, and it helps you develop your kitchen skills along the way,” he writes in today’s Cooking newsletter. (You can sign up for the newsletter here.) Our California restaurant critic also writes an appreciation of the classic Los Angeles restaurants that define the city. _____ 10. Finally, we end with a Valentine’s Day proposal. Not for marriage! Tara Parker-Pope, the founding editor of Well, suggests using the day to be kinder to ourselves. A gentler internal dialogue can be good for us, studies say, and she has some practical ways to tame self-criticism. She drew this quote from a Buddhist monk’s book: “Treat yourself to a delicious meal, a good book, a nice walk with a lovely view. As you would invest in the person you love, so you should invest in yourself.” Have a compassionate night. _____ Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c65ed663a125f5075c09ccf", "date": "2019-02-14T22:34:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "White House Considers Using Storm Aid Funds as a Way to Pay for the Border Wall", "full_text": " McALLEN, Tex. — President Trump traveled to the border on Thursday to warn of crime and chaos on the frontier, as White House officials considered diverting emergency aid from storm- and fire-ravaged Puerto Rico, Florida, Texas and California to build a border barrier, perhaps under an emergency declaration. In a sign of growing unease about the partial government shutdown, some Senate Republicans came off the sidelines to hash out a deal that would reopen the government as Congress worked toward a broader agreement tying wall funds to protection for some undocumented immigrants and other migrants. But before those negotiations could gain momentum, they collapsed. Vice President Mike Pence and other members of Mr. Trump’s team let it be known privately that the president would not back such a deal. “It kind of fell apart,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who was among those Republicans seeking a deal. “It is time for President Trump to use emergency powers to fund the construction of a border wall/barrier,” he said later in a brief statement. He added, “I hope it works.” The administration appeared to be looking into just such a solution: using extraordinary emergency powers to get around Congress in funding the wall. Among the options, the White House has directed the Army Corps of Engineers to determine whether it can divert for wall construction $13.9 billion allocated last year after devastating hurricanes and wildfires, according to congressional and Defense Department officials with knowledge of the matter, who insisted on anonymity to discuss the possibility. Administration officials are debating whether they could make such a move without the president declaring a national emergency, an action the White House counsel’s office has explored. But Mr. Trump’s advisers, including his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have urged him to try to find other approaches than declaring a national emergency. Mr. Kushner’s role was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. The advisers have warned him of a range of possible negative outcomes, particularly the risk of losing in court, people familiar with the discussions said. Aides have suggested that Mr. Trump would be giving a dysfunctional Congress a pass from fulfilling its duties if he makes an aggressive move. And some of his more conservative advisers have suggested a national emergency declaration is a form of government overreach that is antithetical to conservative principles. The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected. As the shutdown neared Day 21 — the second longest in history — Mr. Trump used a visit to a border facility in McAllen, Tex., to blame the protracted shutdown on Democrats, charging that their opposition to a wall was responsible for brutal crime and violence. “You’ll have crime in Iowa, you’ll have crime in New Hampshire, you’ll have crime in New York” without a wall, he warned. “We could stop that cold,” he added. Mr. Trump also repeated his demand for the money from Congress while saying that Mexico would somehow provide funds indirectly for the wall, a contradiction of what he said in December when he wrote in a Twitter post, “I often stated, ‘One way or the other, Mexico is going to pay for the Wall.’ ” “I didn’t say they’re going to write me a check for $10 billion or $20 billion,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday. “If Congress approves this trade bill, they’ll pay for the wall many times over. When I say Mexico’s going to pay for the wall, that’s what I mean.” It was among the bewildering statements that underscored his often contradictory attempts to force Democrats to capitulate. Mr. Trump renewed his threat to declare a national emergency and build his wall without congressional approval. “We can declare a national emergency,” Mr. Trump said. “We shouldn’t have to.” Later, standing just by the Rio Grande with military vehicles and border agents as his backdrop, he said he would consider a compromise that would allow undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, often known as Dreamers, to maintain legal status they lost when he ended the Obama-era program that protected them. “I would like to do a much broader form of immigration,” Mr. Trump said. “We could help the Dreamers.” Only hours earlier, Mr. Pence had rejected such a deal, saying the president wanted to wait until the Supreme Court ruled this spring on whether the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, was constitutional. “No wall, no deal,” Mr. Pence declared in a briefing with reporters on Capitol Hill. “We’re going to keep standing strong, keep standing firm.” The vice president faulted the Democrats, but he has essentially blocked potential solutions for the impasse. He has made it clear that Mr. Trump would not drop his insistence on funding for a wall on the southwestern border, which Democrats have branded a nonstarter. Mr. Pence also indicated that the president was disinclined to accept the idea behind a bipartisan plan that had been under discussion in the Senate that would trade wall funding for legal status for undocumented immigrants facing the threat of deportation, including the Dreamers and people who previously held Temporary Protected Status. Privately, he told Mr. Graham’s group that the president also would not support a proposal that would reopen the government for three weeks while Republicans and Democrats work to hash out a broader legislative deal on the wall and temporary grants of legal status for the two groups. “We’re kind of stuck,” Mr. Graham conceded. Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, also showed no signs of budging, urging the Republican-controlled Senate to take up a measure that the House passed on Wednesday to reopen part of the government. The House passed two more measures on Thursday, this time funding the Departments of Housing and Urban Development, Transportation and Agriculture, as well as the Food and Drug Administration. A dozen Republicans crossed party lines to support one of the measures — slightly more than in previous votes, but no indicator that the patience of Mr. Trump’s own party was wearing thin. “We say to them: ‘Take yes for an answer. This is what you had proposed,’” Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference. “Why are you rejecting it at the expense of the health, safety and well-being of the American people? Do you take an oath to the American people, or to Donald Trump?” The showdown has forced 800,000 federal workers to go without pay and placed federal benefits for millions more in jeopardy, with the fallout being felt across the United States. Without debate on Thursday, the Senate unanimously passed legislation to ensure that workers who go without salaries receive back pay when the government reopens. Senator Mitch McConnell Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said Mr. Trump had assured him he would sign the bill. The partial shutdown will almost certainly become the longest in American history on Saturday, eclipsing a 21-day lapse that began in December 1995. Mr. Trump tweeted Thursday that he would skip a planned trip to the World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland, slated to begin Jan. 22, because of the impasse. The implosion of the congressional deal left lawmakers bracing for Mr. Trump to declare a national emergency. Senior Democrats were exploring both legislative and legal options to challenge the move. The president is allowed to divert unspent money from projects under a national emergency. But a senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe confidential discussions, questioned the legality of using Army Corps funding, saying it would be subject to restrictions under the Stafford Act, which governs disaster relief. The official said the process was as much a political exercise intended to threaten projects Democrats valued as a pragmatic one. “That would be a travesty,” Representative Peter A. DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon and the chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said in an interview. “It’s all speculative at this point,” he said, alluding wryly to Mr. Trump’s penchant for abrupt announcements at all hours of the day and night. “Until we get a tweet at 2:30 tomorrow morning, we won’t know.” Still, Republican senators who had called for reopening the government while the debate over border security continues said they were disappointed. “It’s very difficult when we’re dealing with people who do not want to budge at all with their positions, and that’s the president and Speaker Pelosi,” Senator Susan Collins of Maine said. “They’re each very dug in on their position, and that’s made this very difficult to resolve.” Reporting was contributed by Emily Cochrane, Catie Edmondson, Nicholas Fandos, Glenn Thrush, Thomas Kaplan, Eric Schmitt and Maggie Haberman.    ", "id": "5c37cef43a125f5075c03d0a", "date": "2019-01-10T21:25:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Government Reopens as Trump Casts Doubt on Prospects for a Border Wall Deal", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Hundreds of thousands of federal employees returned to work on Monday with a presidential promise of a paycheck “very quickly” but no guarantee that they will be working in three weeks, when a temporary stopgap of funding expires. President Trump and congressional Democrats arrived at a short-term agreement late on Friday, reopening the government after 35 days and the longest government shutdown in history. Lawmakers have until Feb. 15 to reach a compromise on the Republican request for billions of dollars to be allocated for a border wall — a wall Democrats have refused to fund. Referring to the odds that a deal could be struck over that time, Mr. Trump told The Wall Street Journal on Sunday, “I personally think it’s less than 50-50.” Mr. Trump said he would use emergency powers to fund the wall if an agreement could not be reached. In a stark reminder that federal employees were returning to work with the knowledge that they might be forced to go without a paycheck once again next month, one federal agency, the Department of Agriculture, updated its employee information website and said, “We will also leave some of the shutdown-related material up for a period time, should you need to refer back to it.” Richard Nagle, a lawyer with the Environmental Protection Agency in Chicago, said returning to work after a mandatory furlough required some digging out. “It’s triage,” he said, eyeing his email inbox. “I’m going to go through the ones that are screaming for attention. I haven’t been on voice mail yet, but I’m sure that’s capped out at 32 messages.” In the first hour of his day, one question seemed to be echoing through the halls: What did you do? Colleagues were sharing stories of how they passed the time while they were furloughed. Pretty much everyone confessed to sleeping a little later than usual. Basements were cleaned out, digital photos were organized, hardwood floors were scrubbed until they were gleaming. Some employees took road trips, visiting extended family in Michigan or driving down to Memphis, eight hours away. Anything to stave off the boredom and anxiety of being home, unpaid, during a Chicago winter. As employees streamed into the office, managers stood in the lobby, handing out informational papers on things to know: how to apply for back pay, what to do if you forgot your passwords. Some supervisors brought in sweet treats. There were nudges about projects that had been put on hold — and, in some cases, forgotten — and hurried meetings to figure out what could be accomplished before the next potential shutdown. At a Federal Emergency Management Agency office in Fort Worth, some employees felt like they were racing against the clock. “They’re trying to get as much work as they can get done before flood season, tornado season and hurricane season,” said Steve Reaves, a safety officer for FEMA who also leads the union for FEMA employees. “With us, it’s do as much we can before they try to do this again.” Senior officials on Monday both welcomed their workforces and tried to reassure them about the weeks to come. “I encourage you all to take time to talk to each other about the past few weeks and be transparent with your supervisors about any hardships,” Brock Long, the FEMA administrator, wrote in an email on Monday morning. “I also want to be clear that there is no higher priority than to guarantee, for those who missed paychecks, that you get paid as quickly as possible.” But Mr. Long acknowledged that reopening the government was not as simple as turning a light switch. “While there is important work to be done, I want to make sure that you are set up for success before jumping into your normal assignments,” he wrote. “Please allow time for updates and reboots to computers, addressing expired passwords, syncing mobile devices, managing benefits and organizing your work space. Supervisors have been provided checklists that should be helpful. Again, please also take the time to listen and support each other.” Ryan Baugh, a Department of Homeland Security statistician and a steward for the American Federation of Government Employees, said the possibility that there could be another shutdown had a damaging effect, raising questions about what could realistically be scheduled — meetings, trainings, projects — given the uncertainty. “We’ll work hard for three weeks, and then we’ll see what happens,” he said. “You could still use the word ‘hostage.’ We’re still the bargaining chip here.” The morning commute on Monday in the Washington area was once again bustling after an eerily quiet month of little road traffic during peak travel hours and open seats on trains and buses. At a Metro station near the Environmental Protection Agency’s headquarters in Washington, a small group of environmental activists with the nonprofit group Mom’s Clean Air Force welcomed E.P.A. employees back to work with cinnamon rolls. “Welcome back! Cinnamon roll?” Elizabeth Brandt, a field organizer for the group, chirped as employees rode up the Metro escalator. Ms. Brandt, holding her daughters, Valencia, 5, and Natalia, 3, said that having grown up next to a toxic cleanup site in Tacoma, Wash., it was important to her to make sure the agency’s workers knew their work was valued. “I don’t often get a chance to thank people who do that work the way I thank our pediatrician and the people who give my kids shots,” she said. E.P.A. employees for their part said they were relieved to be back to work yet anxious that the reprieve from the partial government shutdown could be short-lived. “Most of us cannot afford to be without pay for a month,” said Denise Walker, an agency lawyer. “It’s very stressful for people.” The National Park Service reopened on Sunday, but prospective visitors were encouraged to check with individual parks to make sure they were indeed receiving visitors. Smithsonian museums and the National Zoo were set to reopen on Tuesday. Federal workers who had turned to food banks to feed their families continued to struggle to make ends meet as they returned to work on Monday. Some federal employees have been working without pay for weeks. And many federal contractors are not expected to be paid at all for the days the government was closed. Jamie Rodny, an investigator at the Housing and Urban Development office in Los Angeles, said she was both excited to return to work and scared she would be facing the same situation in three weeks. She was told she would not see a paycheck on Monday, and said her branch chief told her that he had heard they might get paid on Thursday. Ms. Rodny, who works for the Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity division, which oversees the enforcement of federal housing laws, said she arrived at her office to find frantic emails and voice mail messages from people whose cases she was forced to drop when the government closed. Now, as she returns these messages, she expects to hear that some of those complainants were evicted over the past 35 days or are facing debts because of the forced lull in their cases. “Where do I start,” she asked. Ms. Rodny spoke at the Women’s March in Washington earlier this month, after she was approached by her labor union, the National Federation of Federal Employees, about the financial and emotional pain of workers affected by the shutdown. Her family lives paycheck to paycheck, she said, and during the break in pay, they used their credit cards for as many purchases as possible, which resulted in her credit score dropping. She said they were able to make their mortgage payment because of donations they received through a GoFundMe campaign. She recently started an activist group called “Stop Government Shutdowns Forever.” The president promised the 800,000 employees who had been furloughed or forced to work that they would be paid “very quickly or as soon as possible,” without providing a specific date. The White House Office of Management and Budget directed agencies to prioritize pay and benefits after reopening. Some federal agencies worked through the weekend in an effort to get paychecks to their workers as soon as possible. The Department of Agriculture instructed its employees to file their time sheets by noon on Monday and pledged to resume direct deposits into bank accounts by Thursday. On Sunday, the commissioner of the Customs and Border Protection agency, Kevin K. McAleenan, addressed employees on Twitter to say that the agency had already approved a majority of the timecards and pledged to work to make sure everyone is paid soon. Aware of the looming Feb. 15 deadline, some lawmakers are trying to pass a law that would outlaw future government shutdowns. “Shutting down the government should be as off limits in budget negotiations as chemical warfare is in real warfare,” Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said on Friday. An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a field organizer for the Mom’s Clear Air Force. She is Elizabeth Brandt, not Eileen. Eileen Sullivan reported from Washington and Alan Blinder from Atlanta. Reporting was contributed by Eric Schmitt, Thom Shanker and Lisa Friedman from Washington and Julie Bosman from Chicago.   ", "id": "5c4f32f03a125f5075c06b6f", "date": "2019-01-28T16:50:45+0000"}]