[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Wanted to Scrap Obamacare. His Party Didn’t.", "full_text": " transcript Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin and Marc Georges The latest scuffle over health care shows a sea change in the Republican stance heading into the 2020 elections. Wednesday, April 3rd, 2019 michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today, President Trump has backed away from his call to replace the Affordable Care Act with a Republican alternative. Alex Burns on why the president’s own party talked him out of it. It’s Wednesday, April 3. alexander burns So last week was as close to a moment of total happiness as President Trump has had in a long time. [music]  archived recording 1 President Trump’s legal team as well as many of those who are close to the president are saying they feel the Mueller report fully vindicates the president after nearly — archived recording 2 There’s no way to take this letter other than a huge win for the president. archived recording 3 To say White House officials are happily telling the American people I told you so, well, that would frankly be a bit of an understatement. archived recording (donald trump) And after three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead. The collusion delusion is over. alexander burns That’s what makes it all the more surprising that his administration decided to dive right back into one of the most politically damaging fights of his whole presidency, which is health care. archived recording 1 The Trump Justice Department just announced a major reversal on Obamacare. archived recording 2 Today, he called the Affordable Care Act horrible and is mounting a push to kill it off. archived recording 3 Fresh off his Mueller investigation victory, some of his biggest supporters are questioning the timing. archived recording 4 Here you have a huge messaging win for the president and the White House with this Mueller summary. Why now? Why do this? archived recording 5 Why now, maybe even why at all? michael barbaro And how does he dive back into that politically damaging fight? alexander burns He directs the Justice Department to take sides in a lawsuit that has been making its way through the federal courts. It was brought by Republican legal officials in a number of states. It has been ruled on by one judge in Texas that the Affordable Care Act is invalid. archived recording A federal judge in Texas has just struck down Obamacare. True story. Judge Reed O’Connor says the individual mandate, the part of the law that requires you to participate, is unconstitutional. And because it cannot be separated from the rest of the law, which it cannot be, the entire law is invalid. alexander burns It is seen as a really long-shot challenge to the Affordable Care Act, something that, in all likelihood, will probably not result in the law being struck down as a whole, but the White House was going to have to decide at some point whether they were going to defend the A.C.A. at the highest levels of the legal system or whether they were going to take sides against a law that’s on the books that Congress failed to repeal when it had the chance. And that’s what they did. archived recording (donald trump) We think it will be upheld, and we think it will do very well in the Supreme Court. And if the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we will have a plan that’s far better than Obamacare. michael barbaro And my sense is that under normal circumstances, the White House almost reflexively defends laws put on the books by Congress. alexander burns It’s a pretty extraordinary step for the president to take sides, not just against a law that’s already on the books, but really the biggest piece of social legislation that’s been passed in recent history. And he does it at the urging of some of his most conservative advisers in the White House, including the chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney — archived recording (mick mulvaney) And it’s hard to know where to begin when you’re talking about how bad the current health care legislation is for small business. alexander burns — who, before he was a member of the Trump administration, was a hardliner in the House of Representatives waging war on the Affordable Care Act from Capitol Hill. archived recording (mick mulvaney) It’s almost as if the folks who wrote this piece of legislation last year either have no idea how small business works or they don’t care how small business works. Either way, the current health care legislation is a complete disaster for small business, and — alexander burns The argument that Mulvaney and others make is that if the president is going to run for re-election as a guy who made promises and kept his promises, especially to conservative voters who still care a lot about getting rid of Obamacare, he has got to take every chance he has to go against it. michael barbaro And given the dynamics of Congress, this is perhaps his best chance? alexander burns Maybe his only chance, because Democrats now control the House. There is really no shot for Republicans to pass a bill repealing the Affordable Care Act. So if they’re going to take it down, they’re going to take it down in the courts. michael barbaro O.K., well, what is the response to this announcement? alexander burns Well, Democrats are totally elated. archived recording (nancy pelosi) This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity. archived recording (chuck schumer) It’s a stark reminder of the difference between our two parties. Democrats are fighting to expand and improve health care coverage and lower costs while Republicans are trying to take it all away and raise costs. alexander burns They have spent, at this point, several days on the defensive about some of the claims that they made about what was likely to be in Robert Mueller’s report. They are desperate to get away from their own divisive fights about the nature of liberal health care policy. You have had, in the presidential primaries, in the House of Representatives, even in the Senate where Democrats aren’t in control, just endless tugs of war between moderate liberals, very liberal Democrats, far-left Democrats over what kind of health care system the country ought to have in an ideal world. Should it be European-style single-payer health care? Should it be a system that just totally does away with private health insurance? All these kinds of divisive debates on the left that have had Democrats tripping over each other. But President Trump weighs in the way he does on the Affordable Care Act, and all of a sudden all those conflicts hit pause. archived recording (nancy pelosi) Oh, no, please. archived recording (SINGING) Happy birthday to you! alexander burns And the timing on the Democratic side is sort of comical in that it is literally Nancy Pelosi’s 79th birthday — archived recording Happy birthday to you. alexander burns — the morning after this Justice Department announcement comes out. And when you have Democrats singing “Happy Birthday” to her, there was this sense in the caucus that she had gotten the best gift a president could have given her. michael barbaro What is the reaction from Republicans in Congress? alexander burns Well, real dismay and surprise and sort of horror. archived recording Even Republicans appear bewildered by President Trump’s promise to make the G.O.P. the party of health care. alexander burns And not just from the few remaining relatively moderate Republicans. archived recording Some Republicans are nervous about that, including House minority leader Kevin McCarthy. According to Axios, McCarthy called the president and told him the decision made no sense, saying the health care battle helped Democrats win the House and several state capitals last year. alexander burns Every Republican analysis of the midterm elections concluded that they lost the House because of health care more than any other individual policy issue. So if you are Kevin McCarthy, the new House minority leader, you are just appalled at the idea that your members are now going to have to have this fight all over again. michael barbaro Right. We had talked about this with you during the midterms — that there had been this huge public shift on Obamacare and that voters who might have previously been against it now do not want it taken away. alexander burns That’s right. It was less of a thank you to Democrats than a punishment for Republicans, that Democrats never got the political boost back in 2010, 2012, 2014 that they hoped they would get for passing a big new social benefit. But what they did ultimately get was the benefit of voters turning against Republicans who wanted to take those benefits away. So Obamacare as a term, as a law, still kind of a mixed bag politically, but there are elements in that law, like protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions, that are enormously popular. And Republicans look back on the last campaign, the one that ended really rather badly for them, and see that as, more than anything else, the fatal political mistake they made. michael barbaro So why would President Trump, the leader of the Republican Party, who had to have watched that same midterm that you’re describing, why would he do this if the takeaway of that midterm is that the Affordable Care Act is no longer toxic and might even be liked by a wide cross-section of Americans? alexander burns In the president’s public statements, and as far as we can tell based on his personal thinking, he recognizes that health care is a huge political vulnerability for Republicans, that the last thing they did on health care, that big repeal drive, was politically devastating to them. And his proclamation that they need to become the party of health care clearly reflects an understanding that a problem needs to be fixed. archived recording (donald trump) So we’re going to get rid of Obamacare. And I said it the other day. The Republican Party will become the party of great health care. It’s good. It’s important. michael barbaro I guess I can see President Trump’s argument there. It feels kind of legitimate. Wouldn’t it be smart for Republicans heading into the next presidential election, 2020, to recognize that there are things that voters like about the Affordable Care Act? But in order for it to be a benefit for the Republicans and not the Democrats, they need to convince voters that the Democratic plan is a bad one and that Republicans will give them a better one. alexander burns Right. But giving voters a better version of health care provided by the Republican Party has always had to mean more than just getting rid of the system that currently exists. It’s this strange kind of bifurcated mental space that Republicans have been living in politically, where they want to run against Democrats for trying to blow up the health care system and replace it with single-payer, and, on the other side, they want to get rid of much of the existing health care system and replace it with something to be named later. michael barbaro In other words, they don’t really have a plan to replace it. alexander burns They don’t, and they kind of never have, not a consensus plan that’s supported by a broad cross-section of the party and voters. And that’s why when the president came out with this position through the Justice Department and then suggested that Republicans in Congress ought to come up with something great, the backlash from Republicans at the highest levels of the congressional party was swift and severe. The view among congressional Republicans was that this was just sort of a total fantasy coming from the president. The idea that they would not only come up with a plan and come up with a plan that would be popular and meet the standards that the president has laid out in rally after rally, but that they would do it within a year and then run on it in 2020 just seemed like it was cut from whole cloth. michael barbaro Is there also a feeling among Republicans toward the president along the lines of, dude, we just want to stop calling attention to this issue. It’s a losing issue for us. Stop drawing attention to it. alexander burns Oh, absolutely. And if the concern among folks like Mick Mulvaney is that walking away from the fight looks like surrender, the view from a lot of Republicans on the Hill is they’ve already lost. They can talk about how they lost, or they can talk about other stuff, and the president is choosing to talk about defeat. michael barbaro Right. Instead of talking about what I had imagined Republicans would be talking about for the next couple of months and maybe even the next year, which is the Democratic fight over “Medicare for all,” the Democratic fight over whether private insurance should even exist — I had expected that that would be the consuming discussion in the political world and in the political campaigns to come when it came to health care. alexander burns So did I, and I think so did a lot of Republican candidates down the ballot preparing for 2020. There was always going to be tension in the Republican message about Democratic radicalism on health care, because if you are running in 2020 on the idea that Democrats are going to blow up the current system and replace it with European-style medicine, you’re kind of implicitly defending the status quo system as it exists under Obamacare. It’s an extraordinarily awkward position for Republicans to be in. Can you be opposed to Democratic proposals to make the health care system even more liberal, even more regulated or structured by the government, without essentially defending the system that Barack Obama put in place? We don’t know how they’re going to walk that line. We don’t know to what extent they’ll even try. But the president’s current approach, which is to say that Democrats will do something drastic and bad to your health care, and I’m not quite going to tell you what I’m going to do yet, doesn’t seem sustainable. michael barbaro So what happens in the last 24 hours or so to this Trump-led project to try to strike down, repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act? alexander burns Well, after days of other Republicans expressing public discomfort with where the president was headed — archived recording (mitch mcconnell) So I made it clear to him we were not going to be doing that in the Senate. alexander burns — Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, conveyed in no uncertain terms to the White House that this was a non-starter in the Senate, that the president was free to do what he wanted to do on health care, but that Senate Republicans were not going to be taking the lead on this. It was not a fight they wanted, period, full stop. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) So we don’t have a misunderstanding about that. We will not be doing comprehensive in the Senate. alexander burns The president seemed to have gotten the message. archived recording President Trump on the retreat. archived recording (donald trump) No, I wanted to delay it myself. I want to put it after the election. alexander burns And his response was to go onto Twitter and to declare that they are totally going to do all the things that he said they were going to do, but at a much later date, after the 2020 election. michael barbaro Right. He cited the date 2021. We will do all this right after the election. alexander burns Right after an election when, in his construction, he would be re-elected, Republicans would hold the Senate, and they would take back control of the House. So that’s not just a delay of game. That is setting a whole bunch of other conditions on what would need to happen to get there. michael barbaro Were you surprised, Alex, that the president backed down on this so quickly? alexander burns I was surprised by how fast it happened. I wasn’t surprised that he sort of came up with a really big theory of what should happen next and then eventually let it disintegrate, because we’ve seen that pattern a number of times. But to pick a fight this big and to stick with it for so little time is the definition of politically counterproductive. michael barbaro So now, we are basically back where we started. The Affordable Care Act is likely to remain the law of the land. So what did we learn from this weeklong ordeal? alexander burns Well, the biggest thing we learned is that the politics of health care have been turned on their head in the last couple of years, and that the Affordable Care Act is no longer a liability for Democrats, and that Republicans, whether they want to acknowledge it or not, have largely abandoned the fight. [music]  The fact that you had the senior-most members of the congressional party saying so clearly to a president they helped elect and have loyally supported, we don’t want to touch health care — it would have been sort of unimaginable to someone five years ago that that would happen with a Republican president in office. michael barbaro Alex, thank you very much. alexander burns Thank you. [music]  alexander burns Tomorrow’s my birthday, so this is like a little birthday special. michael barbaro Yay! Is that on the mic? lisa tobin Happy birthday tomorrow! michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [MUSIC]: Here’s what else you need to know today. archived recording (theresa may) Despite the best efforts of M.P.s, the process that the House of Commons has tried to lead has not come up with an answer. So today, I’m taking action to break the logjam. michael barbaro In her latest attempt to rally support for Brexit after a series of embarrassing setbacks, British prime minister Theresa May said she would seek a new delay for leaving the European Union and would begin negotiating a Brexit plan with her political rivals in the Labour Party. archived recording (theresa may) I’m offering to sit down with the leader of the opposition and to try to agree a plan that we would both stick to to ensure that we leave the European Union and that we do so with a deal. michael barbaro The attempt to work across the aisle with the Labour Party suggests that May cannot win enough support within her own Conservative Party to pass her Brexit plan. archived recording (theresa may) The ideal outcome of this process would be to agree an approach on a future relationship that delivers on the result of the referendum that both the leader of the opposition and I could put to the House for approval, and which I could then take to next week’s European Council. michael barbaro Unless May secures another delay, Britain is currently scheduled to leave the E.U. without a negotiated plan on April 12. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher President Trump has backed away from his call to replace the Affordable Care Act with a Republican alternative. Why did his own party talk him out of it? [For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.] On today’s episode: Alexander Burns, who covers national politics for The New York Times. Background reading: In March, President Trump ordered the Justice Department to ask a federal court to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act. Even some of his own advisers were puzzled by the move. Mr. Trump backed off his plans after Senator Mitch McConnell privately warned him that the Senate would not revisit health care in a comprehensive way before the 2020 elections. The Justice Department’s court filing came at an opportune time for House Democrats, who unveiled the next day a health care plan that builds on the Affordable Care Act. If Obamacare were to be struck down, 21 million Americans could lose their health insurance. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. Alexander Burns contributed reporting. “Trump Wanted to Scrap Obamacare. His Party Didn’t.” was produced by Rachel Quester and Alexandra Leigh Young, with help from Paige Cowett and Eric Krupke, and edited by Lisa Tobin and Marc Georges. “The Daily” is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.", "id": "5ca4848249f0eacbf1f807ed", "date": "2019-04-03T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Why Trump’s New Push to Kill Obamacare Is So Alarming", "full_text": " It’s not just the potential damage to the health care system and the people who depend on it. It’s also the threat, in the administration’s legal logic, to the rule of law.  Mr. Bagley is a professor of law at the University of Michigan Law School. Attorney General William Barr was supposed to be a voice of reason in the Trump administration. An old Washington hand, he had the stature and the backbone to protect the Justice Department from a White House that often seems to disdain the rule of law. Turns out it isn’t so. In a stunning two-sentence letter to a federal appeals court, the Justice Department announced on Monday that it would now seek the invalidation of the entire Affordable Care Act — every last one of its thousands of provisions. The irresponsibility of this new legal position is hard to overstate. It’s a shocking dereliction of the Justice Department’s duty, embraced by Republican and Democratic administrations alike, to defend acts of Congress if any plausible argument can be made in their defense. Nor is the Affordable Care Act some minor statute that can be shoved aside without disruption. It is now part of the basic plumbing of the American health care system. It guarantees protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions. It expanded Medicaid to cover 12.6 million more people, and it offers crucial protections to the 156 million Americans who get insurance through employers. Beyond that, the law forces insurers to cover preventive care and contraception without charge; changed how hospitals and physicians bill for their services; requires fast-food restaurants to post calorie counts; cut hundreds of billions of dollars of Medicare spending; imposed hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes; and much, much more. Unceremoniously ripping up the law would inflict untold harm on the health care system — and on all Americans who depend on it. Yet the Trump administration has now committed itself to doing just that. The letter was submitted in a pending case, brought by a group of red states, in which a federal judge in Texas ruled that no part of the Affordable Care Act could stand. The judge reasoned that Congress created a constitutional problem when, in its big tax reform bill in 2017, it eliminated the financial penalty for going without insurance. Because of that purported constitutional defect, the court held, the entire law had to fall. The ruling was indefensible: Legal scholars across the board criticized it as outrageous and predicted it would almost surely fall upon appeal. Indeed, even the Trump administration couldn’t bring itself to argue that the entire law should be scrapped. It agreed there was a constitutional problem, but said that the right remedy was to keep most of the law in place. Only those parts requiring private insurers to sell coverage at the same price to healthy and sick people alike — the protections for people with pre-existing conditions — would have to be struck. That, too, was an outrageous position. It flouted the Justice Department’s duty to defend, a solemn duty, and one that goes to the heart of the rule of law. Without it, the sitting administration could pick which laws it wanted to defend in the courts and which it wanted to abandon. Laws could rise or fall based on nothing more than partisan disagreement. That’s inconsistent with a constitutional system that assigns to Congress — not the president — the power to legislate. And so, at the confirmation hearing on his nomination to become attorney general, Mr. Barr said that he would review the Justice Department’s position in the Texas lawsuit. Apparently he did just that — but instead of mounting a vigorous defense, he doubled down on killing Obamacare. It’s as if Mr. Barr said to his predecessor, Jeff Sessions: “You thought your position was crazy? Hold my beer.” Does the administration really think that the very position it advanced just months ago is so untenable that it must now adopt one that is even more extreme? The shift in legal position won’t make much of a difference in the lawsuit itself. Because a group of blue states has intervened, the appeals court will hear a full-throated defense of the law. Most observers expect the court to uphold the Affordable Care Act; if so, the Supreme Court may choose not to hear the case. But the Trump administration has signaled loud and clear that its campaign against Obamacare is not over; that it will stop at nothing to achieve in court what it could not achieve in Congress; and that it doesn’t care how many people are hurt if the Affordable Care Act is undone. It has also put health care back at the center of the political conversation. Republicans already took a beating on the issue in the fall midterm elections, and Democrats, who released a bill in the House  to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, want to keep running on it. They’ll be sure to remind voters of the Trump administration’s zealous commitment to taking away their health care. Along the way, the Justice Department has trashed the duty to defend. That’s not to be taken lightly. The duty is a close cousin to the president’s constitutional duty to enforce the law. If the Justice Department really thinks that Obamacare is so blatantly unconstitutional that it can’t be defended, that implies that the president is violating the Constitution whenever he applies it. It’s not hard to see that as an incipient justification for refusing to enforce any law that the president believes to be unconstitutional, however ridiculous or partisan that belief might be. Hopefully it doesn’t come to that. But the failure to defend the Affordable Care Act is an ominous sign to anyone who cares about the rule of law. Nicholas Bagley (@nicholas_bagley) is a professor of law at the University of Michigan Law School. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9b4a0149f0eacbf105f46c", "date": "2019-03-27T10:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "What Happens if Obamacare Is Struck Down?", "full_text": " The Affordable Care Act touches the lives of most Americans. Some 21 million could lose health insurance if the Trump administration were to succeed in having the law ruled unconstitutional.  The Affordable Care Act was already in peril after a federal judge in Texas invalidated the entire law late last year. But the stakes ramped up again this week, when President Trump’s Justice Department announced it had changed its position and agreed with the judge that the entire law, not just three pieces of it, should be scrapped. A coalition of states is appealing the ruling. If it is upheld, tens of millions more people would be affected than those who already rely on the nine-year-old law for health insurance. Also known as Obamacare, the law touches the lives of most Americans, from nursing mothers to people eating at chain restaurants. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.] Here are some potential consequences, based on estimates by various groups. Of the 23 million people who either buy health insurance through the marketplaces set up by the law (11.4 million) or receive coverage through the expansion of Medicaid (12 million), about 21 million are most at risk if Obamacare is struck down. That includes 9.2 million who receive federal subsidies.  On average, the subsidies covered $525 of a $612 monthly premium for customers in the 39 states that use the federal marketplace, HealthCare.gov, according to a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services. If the marketplaces and subsidies go away, a comprehensive health plan would become unaffordable for most of those people and many of them would become uninsured. States could not possibly replace the full amount of federal subsidies with state funds. Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor that is jointly funded by the federal government and the states, has been the workhorse of Obamacare. If the health law were struck down, more than 12 million low-income adults who have gained Medicaid coverage through the law’s expansion of the program could lose it.  In all, according to the Urban Institute, enrollment in the program would drop by more than 15 million, including roughly three million children who got Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program when their parents signed up for coverage. The law ensures that states will never have to pay more than 10 percent of costs for their expanded Medicaid population; few if any states would be able to pick up the remaining 90 percent to keep their programs going. Over all, the federal government’s tab was $62 billion last year, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Losing free health insurance would, of course, also mean worse access to care and, quite possibly, worse health for the millions who would be affected. Among other things, studies have found that Medicaid expansion has led to better access to preventive screenings, medications and mental health services. The health law took effect just as the opioid epidemic was spreading to all corners of the country, and health officials in many states say that one of its biggest benefits has been providing access to addiction treatment. It requires insurance companies to cover substance abuse treatment, and they could stop if the law were struck down.  The biggest group able to access addiction treatment under the law is adults who have gained Medicaid coverage. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 40 percent of people from 18 to 65 with opioid addiction — roughly 800,000 — are on Medicaid, many or most of whom became eligible for it through the health law. Kaiser also found that in 2016, Americans with Medicaid coverage were twice as likely as those with no insurance to receive any treatment for addiction. States with expanded Medicaid are spending much more on medications that treat opioid addiction than they used to. From 2013 through 2017, Medicaid spending on prescriptions for two medications that treat opioid addiction more than doubled: It reached $874 million, up from nearly $358 million in 2013, according to the Urban Institute. The growing insured population in many states has also drawn more treatment providers, including methadone clinics, inpatient programs and primary care doctors who prescribe two other anti-craving medications, buprenorphine and naltrexone. These significant expansions of addiction care could shrink if the law were struck down, leaving a handful of federal grant programs as the main sources of funds.  As many as 133 million Americans — roughly half the population under the age of 65 — have pre-existing medical conditions that could disqualify them from buying a health insurance policy or cause them to pay significantly higher premiums if the health law were overturned, according to a government analysis done in 2017. An existing medical condition includes such common ailments as high blood pressure or asthma, any of which could require someone buying insurance on their own to pay much more for a policy, if they could get one at all. Under the A.C.A., no one can be denied coverage under any circumstance, and insurance companies cannot retroactively cancel a policy unless they find evidence of fraud. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 52 million people have conditions serious enough that insurers would outright deny them coverage if the A.C.A. were not in effect, according to an analysis it did two years ago. Its estimates are based on the guidelines insurers had in place about whom to cover before the federal law was enacted. Most Americans would still be able to get coverage under a plan provided by an employer or under a federal program, as they did before the law was passed, but protections for pre-existing conditions are particularly important to those who want to start their own businesses or retire early. Employers would sometimes refuse to cover certain conditions, and companies would have to decide if they would drop any of the conditions they are now required to cover. The need to protect people with existing medical conditions from discrimination by insurers was a central theme in the midterm elections, and Democrats attributed much of their success in reclaiming control of the House of Representatives to voters’ desire to safeguard those protections. Many Republicans also promised to keep this provision of the law, although exactly how was unclear. Before the law, some individuals were sent to high-risk pools operated by states, but even that coverage was often inadequate. The 156 million Americans who get coverage through an employer, as well as the roughly 15 million enrolled in Obamacare and other plans in the individual insurance market, are protected from caps that insurers and employers used to limit how much they had to pay out in coverage each year or over a lifetime. Before the A.C.A., people with conditions like cancer or hemophilia that were very expensive to treat often faced enormous out-of-pocket costs once their medical bills reached these caps. While not all health coverage was capped, most companies had some sort of limit in place in 2009. A 2017 Brookings analysis estimated that 109 million people would face lifetime limits on their coverage without the health law, with some companies saying they would cover no more than $1 million in medical bills per employee. The vast majority of people never hit those limits, but some who did were forced into bankruptcy or went without treatment. About 60 million people are covered under Medicare, the federal insurance program that covers people over 65 years old and people with disabilities. Even though the main aim of the A.C.A. was to overhaul the health insurance markets, the law “touches virtually every part of Medicare,” said Tricia Neuman, a senior vice president for the Kaiser Family Foundation, which did an analysis of the law’s repeal. Overturning the law would be “very disruptive,” she said. Medicare beneficiaries would have to pay more for preventive care, like a wellness visit or diabetes check, which are now free. They would also have to pay more toward their prescription drugs. About five million people faced the so-called Medicare doughnut hole, or coverage gap, in 2016, which the A.C.A. sought to eliminate. If the law were overturned, that coverage gap would widen again. The law also made other changes, like cutting the amount the federal government paid hospitals and other providers as well as private Medicare Advantage plans. Undoing the cuts could increase the program’s overall costs by hundreds of millions of dollars, according to Ms. Neuman. Premiums for as many as 55 million people under the program could go up as a result. The A.C.A. was also responsible for promoting experiments into new ways of paying hospitals and doctors, creating vehicles like accountable care organizations to help hospitals, doctors and others to better coordinate patients’ care.  If the groups save Medicare money on the care they provide, they get to keep some of those savings. About 12 million people are now enrolled in these Medicare groups, and it is unclear what would happen to these experiments if the law were deemed unconstitutional. Some of Mr. Trump’s initiatives, like the efforts to lower drug prices, would also be hindered without the federal authority established under the A.C.A. The A.C.A. required employers to cover their employees’ children under the age of 26, and it is one of the law’s most popular provisions. Roughly two million young adults are covered under a parent’s insurance plan, according to a 2016 government estimate. If the law were struck down, employers would have to decide if they would continue to offer the coverage. Dorian Smith, a partner at Mercer, a benefits consulting firm, predicted that many companies would most likely continue. Doctors and hospitals could lose a crucial source of revenue, as some people lose insurance. The Urban Institute estimated that nationwide, without the A.C.A., the cost of care for people who cannot pay for it could increase as much as $50.2 billion. Hospitals and other medical providers would incur losses, as many now have higher revenues and reduced costs for uncompensated care in states that expanded Medicaid. A study in 2017 by the Commonwealth Fund found that for every dollar of uncompensated care costs those states had in 2013, the health law had erased 40 cents by 2015, or a total of $6.2 billion. The health insurance industry would be upended by the elimination of A.C.A. requirements. Insurers in many markets could again deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions, and they could charge higher rates to women. States could still regulate insurance, but consumers would see more variation from state to state. Insurers would also probably see lower revenues and fewer members in the plans they operate in the individual market and for state Medicaid programs. The A.C.A. requires nutrition labeling and calorie counts on menu items at chain restaurants. It requires many employers to provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. It created a pathway for federal approval of biosimilars, which are near-copies of biologic drugs, made from living cells. Reed Abelson covers the business of health care, focusing on health insurance and how financial incentives affect the delivery of medical care. She has been a reporter for The Times since 1995.  @ReedAbelson  Robert Pear has been a domestic correspondent in the Washington bureau since joining The Times in 1979. He currently covers domestic policy, the budget, health care and Social Security.  ", "id": "5c9a8ce649f0eacbf105f2d1", "date": "2019-03-26T20:33:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump Is Being Vague About What He Wants to Replace Obamacare. But There Are Clues.", "full_text": " The three leading G.O.P. health care proposals all involve block grants. Those plans are hard to square with the president’s promises to lower premiums and deductibles. We don’t know what will emerge as President Trump’s plan to replace Obamacare, which he has promised to unveil immediately after the 2020 elections. But he has recently endorsed several proposals, and they could provide clues. Over the last two weeks, he has sought to re-emphasize health care as an issue, after a set of bruising legislative defeats in 2017. He directed the Justice Department not to defend the Affordable Care Act against a legal challenge. And he issued statements and tweets calling for Republicans to become “the party of health care,” at a moment when many of his party’s leaders had hoped to focus on different issues. He also began reprising various promises about what a future plan to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act might achieve. The plan, short on specifics, will come with “far lower premiums (costs) & deductibles,” he said this week in a series of tweets. He promised that any Republican health plan would protect Americans with pre-existing health conditions, a major concern of voters that Democrats effectively exploited in the 2018 midterm elections. After his election, President Trump made similar promises, saying that the Republican proposal would be “far less expensive and far better” than Obamacare. The legislation that came later, and earned his endorsement, would have made insurance less expensive, but only for certain groups of young, high-income, healthy Americans. The bills would have also eliminated coverage for millions of people by scaling back Medicaid, and would have made it harder for those with pre-existing illnesses — and those who are older with low incomes — to find meaningful affordable options if they didn’t get insurance from work. The three senators he has chosen to lead the effort — Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, John Barrasso of Wyoming and Rick Scott of Florida — have so far also declined to point to many specifics. When asked about an Obamacare replacement this week, they mentioned their more modest bills to reduce health care costs in the emergency room and at the drugstore. (A fourth senator the president has mentioned, the majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has been even more clear that he has little interest in pursuing comprehensive health care legislation.) One clue to Mr. Trump’s thinking is the choice of Mr. Cassidy. Along with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, he was the author of a legislative plan that received some scrutiny in 2017 but never came up for a vote. Another hint can be found in the president’s own budget, released just before his reinvigorated health care push. A third is a draft proposal developed by a group of conservative Washington policy groups. The president has spoken fondly several times about this proposal, which did not have enough support in Congress to advance to a vote. It would eliminate current programs funding Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, which covers the working poor, and insurance subsidies helping low- and middle-income Americans buy their insurance. Instead, that money would be grouped together, then parceled out to states to use in the service of health care programs they favor. The legislation attaches some rules to how the money can be used — it must go toward health care, for example — but its main goal is to provide states with maximum flexibility to develop local and innovative solutions. (Some experts worry that states could struggle to develop such plans on the bill’s abbreviated timetable.) That flexibility would allow states, if they so chose, to waive Obamacare’s rules that plans must cover a standard set of medical benefits, and that insurers must charge the same prices to customers with different health histories. It would be easy for states to circumvent current protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. That ability would be at odds with the president’s recent promises to protect such rules.  The bill would also restructure the Medicaid program, even for populations that were enrolled in the program before Obamacare. The bill’s formula for allocating money among the states would also lead to big redistributions, generally taking money away from states that have expanded Medicaid, toward those that have not. It would also restrict the growth of the block grants over time. Those funding formulas, while technical, make a big difference in the impact of the program. It would result in substantial funding shortfalls for several large states nearly immediately, and leave nearly every state in a funding crunch over the long term. Because the 2020 White House budget was developed and published by the White House itself, it is perhaps the most useful clue about how the president imagines a world without Obamacare.  Like the Graham-Cassidy proposal, it includes block grants to the states to replace the Obamacare coverage expansion, and it replaces the remainder of Medicaid with a set of fixed payments to states. But the rate at which the different grants would grow over time would be even smaller than under the legislation, “to make the system more efficient.” The budget is vague about what sorts of insurance regulations would be allowed, but it does note that a tenth of funds would need to be set aside for people with pre-existing conditions, a sign that states would be allowed to exclude such people from the mainstream insurance markets. A group of conservative health policy experts, including the Heritage Foundation, has developed a health care proposal that shares a basic structure with the two systems described above: It would hand states blocks of money and a few rules, and encourage them to develop their own health care systems. The rules in the conservative plan differ a bit from those in Graham-Cassidy. The plan would require that government-subsidized systems offer every American a choice of a private health plan, a requirement that would probably foreclose a liberal state from enacting a single-payer program and that might require restructuring of some state-run Medicaid programs. The plan shies away from specifying funding formulas. It doesn’t say how the block of money should be divvied up among the states, though it says that states with more low-income residents should get a bigger share. It also doesn’t specify precisely how quickly the pot of money should grow over time. Like the budget proposal, it nods to concerns about Americans with pre-existing conditions by encouraging states to develop special programs, like high-risk pools, to insure people with expensive health needs. But it also encourages insurance strategies, like discounts for young customers, or stripped-down benefit plans, that would tend to make mainstream insurance less useful for people with serious health needs. The proposal also leaves the legacy Medicaid program as is. That choice neutralizes one possible political line of attack. But it also substantially diminishes the program’s possible cost savings. The court case over the Affordable Care Act will be decided on the judiciary’s timetable, so it’s not clear how long the White House may have to develop a replacement plan. But, since it certainly has at least months, there is time to develop some new proposal more aligned with the president’s recent promises. Doing so will not be easy, however. Health care in the United States is expensive, which means that health plans that cover everyone with low deductibles are likely to be costly. The block grant plans the president has admired reduce rather than increase current federal spending on health care. Looser rules on health insurance are likely to increase costs on customers unfortunate enough to need care. That makes the block-grant approach a troublesome fit with the president’s stated desire for a system that Americans find “far less expensive & much more usable than Obamacare.” Margot Sanger-Katz is a domestic correspondent and writes about health care for The Upshot. She was previously a reporter at National Journal and The Concord Monitor and an editor at Legal Affairs and the Yale Alumni Magazine.  @sangerkatz • Facebook ", "id": "5ca7197a49f0eacbf1f81196", "date": "2019-04-05T09:00:14+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Inside the White House Fight Over Obamacare", "full_text": " Good Thursday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • How did President Trump come to support a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act? It happened after a heated Oval Office meeting, in which Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, prevailed over the vice president and the White House counsel. Many Republicans are worried that a health care fight could empower Democrats, like it did in the midterm elections. • A decade ago, Senator Cory Booker was the rising-star mayor of Newark with a problem: crime. The way he handled it may offer insights into what kind of president he would be. Here’s a look at Newark’s police department under Mr. Booker. • Days after Attorney General William P. Barr wrote his summary of the still-secret report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, a pressing mystery remains: Why did Mr. Mueller take no position on whether the president obstructed justice? • Russia, which sent two planes carrying military personnel to Venezuela this week, shows little sign of tamping down its involvement there, even as Mr. Trump warned it to “get out.” • Senator Kristen Gillibrand on Wednesday became the first Democratic presidential candidate to disclose her most recent tax returns, challenging her rivals to do to the same. • The Supreme Court heard arguments Wednesday on whether to cut back the power of administrative agencies, a central goal of the conservative legal movement. • Lawmakers from both parties denounced the Trump administration’s proposal to cut the budgets of the State Department and the main international aid agency by more than 23 percent. The move could threaten national security and hamper diplomacy. • On a day of congressional hearings on federal oversight of the aviation industry, Boeing said it was close to completing a software fix for the 737 Max models, two of which crashed in recent months. Here are some key points. • China’s surrender to Western powers after the first Opium War, and the unequal trade treaties that followed, help explain Beijing’s interest in a global trading order that works more on its terms, historians say. Chinese state media say the Trump administration doesn’t understand that. • Education Secretary Betsy DeVos presented a proposal to cut $17.6 million in federal funding from the Special Olympics this week. It’s drawing much attention and opposition, but it’s unlikely to make it past Congress. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9c4acb49f0eacbf105f72c", "date": "2019-03-28T04:15:45+0000"}]