[{"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Actually Wants to Fix Capitalism", "full_text": " She has big ideas for repairing the American economy. The other Democratic candidates should too. Opinion Columnist Bill Clinton had a consequential presidency when it came to the economy. He brought down the Reagan-era deficits, helping spark the strongest economic boom in decades, and he made the tax code more progressive. Barack Obama had an even more consequential presidency. He halted the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. He did so in part by signing a stimulus bill full of spending on education, wind energy and other programs with lasting benefits. He also put in place new regulations for Wall Street and extended health insurance to almost 20 million people. Yet for all that both men accomplished, neither changed the fundamental direction of the American economy. This history suggests that the Democratic Party’s economic agenda needs to become more ambitious. Modest changes in the top marginal tax rate or in middle-class tax credits aren’t enough. The country needs an economic policy that measures up to the scale of our challenges. So far, only one candidate among the 2020 contenders has an agenda with this level of ambition: Elizabeth Warren. Her platform aims to reform American capitalism so that it once again works well for most American families. The recent tradition in Democratic politics has been different. It has been largely to accept that big companies are going to get bigger and do everything they can to hold down workers’ pay. The government will then try to improve things through income taxes and benefit programs.  Warren is trying to treat not just the symptoms but the underlying disease. She has proposed a universal child-care and pre-K program that echoes the universal high school movement of the early 20th century. She favors not only a tougher approach to future mergers, as many Democrats do, but also a breakup of Facebook and other tech companies that have come to resemble monopolies. She wants to require corporations to include worker representatives on their boards — to end the era of “shareholder-value maximization,” in which companies care almost exclusively about the interests of their shareholders, often at the expense of their workers, their communities and their country. Warren was also the first high-profile politician to call for an annual wealth tax, on fortunes greater than $50 million. This tax is the logical extension of research by the economist Thomas Piketty and others, which has shown how extreme wealth perpetuates itself. Historically, such concentration has often led to the decline of powerful societies. Warren, unlike some Democrats, comfortably explains that she is not socialist. She is a capitalist and, like Franklin D. Roosevelt, is trying to save American capitalism from its own excesses. [Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.] “Sometimes, bigger ideas are more possible to accomplish,” Warren told me during a recent conversation about the economy at her Washington apartment. “Because you can inspire people.” Before I go further, I want to offer two caveats. One, Warren’s grasp of the country’s problems does not necessarily mean that she should be the Democratic nominee for president. Politics is not an expertise competition. The nominee should be, and most likely will be, the candidate who best inspires voters. Maybe that will be Warren, or maybe it will be someone else. Two, I don’t agree with all of Warren’s proposals. Her plan to break up the big technology companies seems too uniform, for example. Her plan to put workers on corporate boards may not be as practical as, say, a big federal push to increase workers’ bargaining power. But whatever my — or your — specific objections, Warren is identifying the right problems and offering a coherent vision for a post-Obama Democratic agenda. “Clinton and Obama focused on boosting growth and redistribution,” Gabriel Zucman, a University of California, Berkeley, economist who has advised Warren, says. “Warren is focusing on how pretax income can be made more equal.” She isn’t simply proposing larger versions of Obama’s (worthy) tax cut for middle-class and poor families, as several 2020 candidates have. Her plans are also much more detailed than those of Bernie Sanders (who, to his credit, pushed the party to become bolder). And she has avoided getting trapped in the health insurance wonkery that too often dominates progressive policy debates. The future of the republic does not actually depend on the relative sizes of Medicare, Medicaid and the private market. It may, however, depend on whether Americans’ incomes and living standards are consistently rising.  In the months to come, I hope that every other 2020 candidate offers answers to the questions that Warren has taken on: How can corporate America again help create a prosperous, growing middle class, as it did from the 1940s through the 1970s? How can the power of giant corporations — over consumers, workers and smaller businesses — be constrained? How can the radical levels of wealth inequality be reversed? How can the yawning opportunity gaps for children of different backgrounds be reduced? How can the next president make changes that will endure, rather than be undone by a future president, as both Obama’s and Clinton’s top-end tax increases were? It is not surprising that Warren has jumped out to an early lead in the ideas primary. The main theme in her life, both professional and personal, has been economic opportunity. Her father was a carpet salesman at Montgomery Ward in Oklahoma City in the 1960s, until he had a heart attack. He had to switch to lower-paying work as a janitor, and her mother got a minimum-wage job, answering phones at Sears. Warren’s three older brothers all went into the military. “That was their chance to make it into the middle class,” she told me. Warren went to college and became a teacher, until the school chose not to renew her contract rather than give her maternity leave. She then went to a public law school — for $450 per semester — and became a bankruptcy expert, early on at the University of Houston and ultimately at Harvard. “The way I see it is, I have lived opportunity,” she said. “I’ve lived the kind of opportunity that comes from a government that invests a little in its kids, a government that tries to keep the playing field a little bit level for folks like my family.” Her theory of political change has been shaped by two experiences — one failure and one success. As a professor in the 1990s, she served on a federal bankruptcy commission and fought against legal changes that favored banks over borrowers. The fight went on for a decade, and Warren’s side lost. The defeat left her believing that a technocratic legislative debate — “the inside game,” as she calls it — almost always favors industry lobbyists. The success came during the Obama administration, when she pushed for an agency to protect consumers against banks’ misbehavior. The idea was new. It was also simple enough for voters to understand. She hawked it on “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.” This time, Warren’s side won. Trump has since constrained the agency, but it still exists and is still doing good. Those experiences help explain why Warren thinks that bigger changes are sometimes more feasible than modest ones. Bigger changes — tangible, new ideas — can overcome voter cynicism. “A lot of people don’t believe you can actually make any change on economics,” Warren says. I would add another, even larger, example to the pattern: Obamacare. Trump has undone many of Obama’s more modest changes, on taxes, climate and other areas. But Obama’s grandest accomplishment endures. For all its flaws, it proved too popular to kill. Warren’s agenda is a series of such bold ideas. She isn’t pushing for a byzantine system of tax credits for child care. She wants a universal program of pre-K and child care, administered locally, with higher pay for teachers and affordable tuition for families. And to anyone who asks, “But how will you pay for that?” Warren has an answer. Her wealth tax would raise more than $250 billion a year, about four times the estimated cost of universal child care. She is, in her populist way, the fiscal conservative in the campaign. The wealth-tax proposal has shifted the national debate more than any other 2020 proposal so far. It has made people realize the most middle-class families pay an annual tax on their largest asset — called the property tax. But the wealthy do not, because financial holdings aren’t taxed the way real estate is. Some center-left economists have criticized a wealth tax as too disruptive, potentially threatening some family-owned businesses, but many others have praised it. “This type of wealth tax,” Gene Sperling, the former top economic adviser to Obama and both Clintons, has said, “is essential.” Perhaps the biggest reason to be hopeful about Warren’s larger agenda — separate from her fate as a candidate — is that it’s popular. Americans are deeply divided on social issues like abortion, religion and, to some extent, immigration and guns. But a clear majority favors a wealth tax. A clear majority favors universal child care. A clear majority favors aggressive government action to check corporate power and create decent-paying jobs. On economic issues, as Warren says, “The progressive agenda is America’s agenda.” To other 2020 candidates, I’d say: Be ambitious. Tell the country how you would end the new Gilded Age and improve people’s lives. Presidential campaigns are the time for big ideas.  The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt • Facebook ", "id": "5c8bfea249f0eacbf105d50d", "date": "2019-03-15T19:34:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "One-on-One With Elizabeth Warren", "full_text": " transcript With Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt An interview with the Massachusetts senator and 2020 presidential contender. Wednesday, March 13th, 2019 michelle goldberg I’m Michelle Goldberg. ross douthat I’m Ross Douthat. david leonhardt I’m David Leonhardt and this is “The Argument.” This week Senator Elizabeth Warren sits down with me to talk about her plan for the economy. senator elizabeth warren The progressive agenda is America’s agenda. david leonhardt On economics. senator elizabeth warren On economics. david leonhardt Then Ross, Michelle and I debate: is Warren’s agenda the future of the Democratic Party? michelle goldberg This is when I start wondering, like, how much policy actually matters at all. david leonhardt And finally, a recommendation. ross douthat I bought the Perrier fruit-flavored seltzer and it’s awful! david leonhardt Senator Elizabeth Warren has been setting the terms of the conversation about policy in the 2020 presidential campaign. She’s come out with a series of ideas that are big, bold and some would say radical: an annual tax on the holdings of the very wealthy, universal child care, a breakup of big tech companies, a requirement that corporate boards include workers. Whether or not Warren wins the nomination, she’s influencing the future of the Democratic Party. So we wanted to sit down with her and give a proper hearing to her ideas. She invited me and our producer Alex Laughlin to her apartment in Washington, D.C. where we recorded this conversation — fittingly enough — at her kitchen table. Senator Warren, welcome to “The Argument.” senator elizabeth warren Thank you. I’m glad to be here. david leonhardt So you know a lot of the people who are also running for president. Some of them are your friends. senator elizabeth warren I do. david leonhardt So why you? senator elizabeth warren This is my life’s work. And look, I think 2020 will be about economics. What’s happened to working families, what’s happening to middle class families, why is it that the path has gotten so much steeper, so much rockier for hard-working people? And even steeper and even rockier for people of color? This is a moment when we can tackle that one head on. When we can run straight up the middle and say we’re going to make a change here. david leonhardt So you’ve been alive for previous presidential campaigns. You know how Republicans will paint a Democratic nominee and you in particular if you’re the nominee, right? If we were going to make a Democratic nominee in a lab, right, it probably wouldn’t be a former Harvard professor. So how do you fight back when they say there is this Massachusetts liberal. senator elizabeth warren I’m going to push back on just the whole notion of how this should work. Look, I was born and raised in Oklahoma. I’m the baby. I have three older brothers. david leonhardt Significantly older, right? senator elizabeth warren Yes, significantly older brothers.They all three joined the military. That was their chance to make it into the middle class. My daddy ended up as a janitor. My big chance in life was a commuter college that cost $50 a semester. And ultimately I got to be a public school teacher, worked with special-needs kids. david leonhardt And you were let go in part because you were pregnant. senator elizabeth warren I know! Got pushed out the door. But that turned me around to law school, a public law school that cost $450 a semester. The way I see it is I have lived opportunity. I don’t just in the abstract think opportunity is great. I’ve lived it. And I’ve lived the kind of opportunity that comes from a government that invests a little in its kids. A government that tries to keep the playing field a little bit level for folks like my family. I believe that is the America of our best values. david leonhardt So your campaign is a direct extension of your life’s work. senator elizabeth warren Yes. david leonhardt It’s this idea that our country, our society, doesn’t work for most people anymore and that you want to fix that. And so I thought we should talk a little bit about what caused the problem and then how you want to fix it. And I actually want to start with a historical anecdote that involves another presidential candidate and maybe not the one you would expect: George Romney. Mitt’s dad, who before he ran for president in 1968 was an auto executive. And he had a habit of saying no to annual bonuses that his board wanted to give him because he said to his board of directors, “I do not believe anyone should make more than $225,000 a year, which adjusted for inflation is about $2 million. I mean can you imagine that today? And I think that that highlights how our culture and our society used to be different. That top corporate executives didn’t try to maximize their own pay. They viewed themselves as leaders of society. And sure they fought for things that help their profits but they also built the Interstate Highway System. And I guess I just wonder if you could look back and offer some thoughts about what was it that created that old culture that seemed to work so well for our country. senator elizabeth warren So I’d say the roots were in the Great Depression and the notion that we had lived through a period of extraordinary inequality. Right? The very, very wealthy. And then it had all come crashing down around our ears in the Great Depression. And those who had been at the top were really kind of fingered as the guys who caused the crash and brought it down on everyone. So the idea was, we’re in this together. Now, you always have to take a deep breath on this and say, together is a relative term. Together among white people, and together among men. But still you can actually see it in the data, can’t you, that as the country got richer, as GDP goes up, income goes up for everybody. You can read things about how when the company does well, how excited all the workers are. Because that means this year their raises are going to be a little bit bigger. In other words, the sense of shared enterprise is not only the CEO who says, “I’m part of leading this team and we’re gonna do this together.” And living it — not just the rhetoric. But also at the other end, all the workers being proud of what they put out because they know when the company does well they will do well. david leonhardt Can you see any way to recapture that old ethos today? senator elizabeth warren So how did the companies at that point describe themselves and how did the law align with it? Because it wasn’t just a cultural thing. It was actually reinforced by by legal incentives, by rules. They all worked together. Let me give you a couple of examples. So you look back at the Business Roundtable, you know these are the ginormous businesses that all get together and the CEOs get together and talk about how business is. david leonhardt And I think a formally only CEOs can be members of the Business Roundtable? senator elizabeth warren That’s right, I think that’s right. And only ginormous companies can be members. So they get together for the Business Roundtable and how do they describe themselves into the early 1980s? Now this is formally described themselves, not just over, you know, cigars and fine port but how do they actually describe themselves. david leonhardt In their documents. senator elizabeth warren Yeah, in their documents. And they say a corporation owes a duty to its shareholders, to its workers, to its customers, to the community in which it is located. That all of those entities are stakeholders in this company. By the end of the 1980s you see the Business Roundtable describe the obligation of these ginormous corporations as, we have an obligation our shareholders and nobody else. david leonhardt Full stop. senator elizabeth warren Full stop. Our job is to pump out the greatest number of dollars of profits to increase the wealth of our shareholders, and if that means mashing our workers into the dirt, not our problem. So a powerful difference. And then you’re watching the law — the incentives in the law — shift at the same time. So Roosevelt comes in and — first Roosevelt, gonna be a trust buster. That works for a while. Then it kind of dies off and then we see the Gilded Age. Second Roosevelt comes in, Franklin Roosevelt, and he says I’m gonna pick up these anti-trust tools and I’m gonna use them. So throughout the ‘30s, the ‘40s, the ‘50s, the ‘60s, into the ‘70s you see really strong antitrust enforcement. In other words you get too big and there’s a government that balances you out and says whoa! No more swallowing up your rivals. No more eating the little businesses so that they don’t pose any threat to you. And you watch that all the way through in the government. The places where the government supports the idea that corporations are not just there to maximize their profits. We’ve gotta make sure that competition is protected. That the S.E.C. is strong and is a cop walking the beat to make sure that giant companies are not cheating either their investors or their customers. That’s the idea. david leonhardt And you can sort of see how the government and companies reinforce each other. That if companies feel like, hey there’s a cop on the beat, we better behave. And if they feel like you know what, they’re not going to stop us. It sort of gives them incentive and permission to be much more aggressive about everything. senator elizabeth warren You are so right to focus on the incentive. In fact I’ll just add to it. It actually starts to work the other way. So if there’s a cop on the beat, I better mind my P’s and Q’s but I know my competitors will be too. david leonhardt Oh, that’s interesting. senator elizabeth warren If there’s no cop on the beat, holy —. Wait, I know I’m a good guy but man, that corporation or corporations I’m competing against? They’re not, and if no one’s going to enforce and they’re going to cheat, boy I better get out there and start cutting corners too. So the role of government, it’s not just either good or benign. It’s actually good or bad, in terms of how these incentives get adjusted. david leonhardt One of the themes that we talk about on our show is, the American people are quite progressive on economics, right? You look at the polling on your wealth tax, you look at the polling on other tax increases on the rich, tax increases on corporations, minimum wage, expanding Medicare — down the line. senator elizabeth warren The Progressive agenda is America’s agenda. david leonhardt On economics. senator elizabeth warren On economics. david leonhardt I think it’s different on social issues and cultural issues where I think we are more fundamentally divided. I think there are even some issues where you could say we are a center-right country, but we are much more of a center country than a left-leaning country. And I think that there are a lot of people out there who, even though they may support a wealth tax or expanded Medicare, continue to vote Republican or don’t vote because of some of these other issues. And it’s interesting. You’re a former registered Republican earlier in your life, right? Can you talk about how you make the case to people who are with you on economics but who for deeply held reasons — they may be pro-life, they may want immigration restrictions — they’re not going to agree with you on those issues. How do you win those people over? senator elizabeth warren So I’m gonna make the pitch slightly differently and that is I think a lot of people don’t believe you will actually make any change on economics. That most politicians will stand up and talk about, “Oh I’m here for working people,” and then they’re not. And then they don’t make any real change. I think that right now people are told over and over and over there’s not a nickel’s worth of difference between the folks in Washington. Democrat, Republican — in fact the only differences are on social issues because none of them are doing anything to help anyone except giant drug companies, giant financial companies, giant oil companies, right? david leonhardt That helped Trump win, that attitude. senator elizabeth warren That’s right. And so it’s not as if people have been asked to weigh real economic change versus social issues on which we, just as a country, we just, we disagree. Instead it’s been a Washington that doesn’t work for them and that’s what they see. So the way I see this is coming really hard at this fundamental question of what’s broken. Why it is that Washington doesn’t work in a democracy for the majority of the people, and that we can see where the economic problems are we can truly make a commitment that’s credible that we’re gonna fight it and fight it together and make these changes. You know here’s the example: So start with the wealth tax, and people get interested. And they say, “Wow, you really would be willing to push back on the billionaires? On the multi- multi- multimillionaires? On people who’ve amassed these great fortunes?” And the answer to that is, yeah I would, but here’s part two: If we did that, let’s talk about what kind of difference that could make in your life because the wealth tax would produce enough money to pay for universal child care and early education pre-K and pre- pre-K and still have $2 trillion leftover. Think about what we could do on student loans or the work we need to do on infrastructure. And you know, it all starts to feel real now. Something that’s not just handwaving and pie-in-the-sky but feels like real change. david leonhardt An outside budget experts said to me, “You know I can’t decide how I feel about the Warren wealth tax but I’ll tell you this: She never has to answer the question again during the campaign of how will you pay for something. The answer is the wealth tax” senator elizabeth warren Yes. It’s right there. You start with how you’re going to pay for it but that’s actually the heart of the point. david leonhardt So there are a whole bunch of silly criticisms of a couple of your policy proposals. senator elizabeth warren Oh well let’s do the silly ones. david leonhardt Well let’s skip the silly ones. Let me tell you the ones that weigh on me a little bit. Which is, in the literal sense of the word radical, meaning to get at the root of the problem, you have some radical proposals. They’re new, they’re innovative. So One is the wealth tax. We do not currently have a tax on large wealth. We have a property tax which is sort of a tax on middle class — senator elizabeth warren I was just going to say, actually, I’d like to point out that every homeowner in America, every owner of a small family farm, they are paying a wealth tax. It’s just called a property tax and they pay usually a lot more. david leonhardt Which is, I think, probably the best argument for it. You also have this proposal to put workers on corporate boards. senator elizabeth warren Yes! david leonhardt With the idea of re-instilling the notion that companies exist for shareholders, yes, but also for workers and communities. So it seems to me that the more substantive criticisms of this is that you are asking government to do a lot of new things. Given the amount of distrust that people have in government, what gives you the confidence that government can actually take on all these new roles and do these things that it hasn’t been doing? senator elizabeth warren I built one. david leonhardt Built? senator elizabeth warren The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That went from zero to 60, right? We didn’t have a consumer agency, within a year it was actually out there stopping the frauds, forcing the big banks to pay people back, managing a consumer complaint hotline. We made it work. And I’ll tell you about setting that up because this is like, this was amazing. Building that agency was an amazing experience. But probably the best part of it was the fact that people from all over the country showed up and said, “Let me be part of this. I want to do something bigger than myself, something more important than what I’ve been doing.” And people applied who’d been in the banking industry. People applied who were straight out of college. People applied who had just retired. Oh, I had a cowboy who applied. It’s true, it’s a true story. He described himself as a cowboy banker. But people applied who’d been prosecutors and had prosecuted other kinds of criminal behavior and wanted a chance to go after those who cheat people for their money. And then the challenge was to build an agency that had a structure so the mission really would carry out over time, not just while I was there and able to walk up and down the halls and say, “Who are we fighting for? Families across this country!” But that would truly be built into the structure. And so, proof is in the pudding. That little agency has forced the biggest financial institutions in this country to return about $12 billion directly to people they cheated. Now take a deep breath there. If they actually had to write checks for $12 billion, how much other cheating didn’t go on because they said this is just not worth — david leonhardt The cop on the beat idea. senator elizabeth warren The cop on the beat. david leonhardt I think a lot of people have the impression that Trump is just totally neutered it. But you think this agency is still doing good today? senator elizabeth warren I do. Now look, not as much as it could be doing. Mick Mulvaney did everything he could to take the legs out from underneath it. But the agency may have paused in some of its more aggressive work but the structure is right. david leonhardt It’s still there. senator elizabeth warren And it’s still handling those complaints. It’s still making a difference in the marketplace. david leonhardt It seems to me, the bigger point there in terms looking forward is, you actually think sometimes bigger ideas are more possible to accomplish because you can inspire people. senator elizabeth warren Oh I do! david leonhardt One of the ways that we know the campaign playbook particularly for President Trump will go: it’ll involve racism. You’ve obviously experienced this more than most people because of the racist insults that he used. After the whole controversy about the Native American history, you said that you’re open to the idea of reparations not only for African-Americans from slavery but reparations for Native Americans. How do you make that case, in particular to white workers, that the Democrats are the party of white people too? senator elizabeth warren So I’ll make the argument two ways. One is I think we just have to address it and talk about it head on. We cannot pretend there is no racial implication to anything that happens. We live in an America where for every $100 of wealth that the middle white family owns the median black family owns about $5 of wealth. Generation after generation of systematic discrimination — for example on housing, which was still legal into the 1960s, a federal government that subsidized the purchase of homes in all the neighborhoods except African-American neighborhoods — has had implications that reverberate through today. And we just got to be willing to address it and talk about it head on. There’s no sweeping it under the rug. There’s no pretending it’s not there. So I think that’s part one. We just talk about it. Part two is — look, Donald Trump gets the basic idea and that is, let’s set working people against working people. david leonhardt Yep. senator elizabeth warren Let’s treat value in our country, wealth in our country, as absolutely limited. And a dollar to him it’s not a dollar to you, working person against working person. Martin Luther King Jr. called this out back in the 1960s. He talked about setting working people against working people so nobody would notice that it was the really rich people who were picking their pockets. So I think part of it is we just have to say, is that who are going to be? Are we going to turn on each other or are we done to try to work this out? david leonhardt Let me actually ask you a quick question on universal child care. It was a subject of a recent episode of “The Argument” and there’s a lot that I really like about the universal child care program. I like the idea that it builds up a system of better preschools. I like the idea that you’re going to raise the wages of childcare workers. I have one concern. And it’s not the majority of the program but it’s a real concern. There are working class and middle class people who want to stay home with their kids. Your mom did that. And this program doesn’t help them. senator elizabeth warren Oh wrong. Oh, so wrong. david leonhardt Tell me how I’m wrong. senator elizabeth warren So this program puts all this money into early learning programs. So understand, rich people whether they’re home or not they’ve got their kids in top notch programs when they’re four years old, when they’re three years old. Lot of them when they’re still two years old because they know that those educational opportunities — and they are educational opportunities, I mean it looks like, to you and me, they’re playing with blocks and they’re bumping into each other and knocking each other down — but these are important educational opportunities. Those are open to everybody. Have at it. You don’t have to go in pocket to make sure that your children get the same opportunities as the children of somebody who’s rich. david leonhardt Could you imagine adding some kind of tax credit that says if your income is below a certain level and you stay home with your kid for the first year or two that you get a boost as well? senator elizabeth warren So I think it’s an interesting idea. I want to see how the numbers play out, of course, and exactly who’d be affected. But it is true — and this is a core part of it — this is about parents being able to have a range of decisions open to them. That’s really the heart of this. And the fact that all our babies zero to five will be well taken care of no matter what. You think about what’s going to make a great America a generation from now, two generations from now. The best investment we can make is in those zero to fives. The data show us every nickel we invest there pays off not only individually for that child throughout their lives, but also collectively for all of us. Investments in our kids, those are the investments that really pay off. david leonhardt Yeah it reduces future welfare spending and you probably might create a few more billionaires who then pay some of the wealth tax. senator elizabeth warren Exactly, and I’m all for that. You know more people to pay the wealth tax. There you go. david leonhardt One more question on it that actually extends to K-12 and through higher education. One of my differences with a lot of other progressives is that I think progressives haven’t been tough enough about the quality of public schools. How do you think the federal government can do a better job of — or disagree with the premise if you want — of getting tough on poor performers and raising the quality, not just the funding, but the quality of education? senator elizabeth warren So I’m going to do two pitches here. The first one is you can’t raise the quality of education if you won’t pay your teachers. You can’t raise the quality of education if you do, like I did, I went back to my high school and there are ceiling tiles falling down in the school cafeteria. david leonhardt In Oklahoma City? senator elizabeth warren Yeah. Because the roof leaks and nobody has the money to fix it. So partly you can’t stand around and say, “Do more! Do more! Do more!” and not give them some more money to be able to do it with. But the second one I particularly want to focus on higher ed, because there’s a lot of work here. This is a place where your tax dollars have been put at risk through the student loan program. And yet right now the Department of Education is letting for profit colleges, for example, just siphon those dollars off into, at best, substandard educational experiences for many, many, many students. And the consequence of that is that people get saddled with huge debt and very little increase in their income potential and their lives are destroyed because those debts are not dischargeable in bankruptcy. So right off the top, this fight is right on the table about how much the federal government should insist on higher standards for anyone to be able to get access — for any school to be able to get access to the federal student loan program. And understand for most of these for profit colleges, they can’t operate without federal student loan money. They target principally two groups: young people who went straight from high school to the military and now have good benefits as they come out and are ready, after maybe having served four years or six years. They want to come out. They want to get a college degree. They pounce on those kids and they pounce on single moms working two jobs. Read the ads in the subway. And they pitch them on the idea that their children, the children of college graduates do better than the children of non-college graduates. So people sign up who are not always very sophisticated about the colleges and they get deep in debt for very substandard educational programs. This is a place where right now Betsy DeVos, your secretary of education, is lowering the standards day by day so that for profit colleges can rip off more students. That is outrageous. david leonhardt I agree. And for profit colleges are clearly worse than public colleges on this. The only thing I’d add is, there are public colleges that also have horrifically high dropout rates. senator elizabeth warren Now I would add to your point. I’ve actually been pushing for a long time something called “skin in the game,” and that is for all of the colleges, that they should have some skin in the game that the amount of debt their students take out is actually repayable. In other words, I just use the default rate as the measure. If you have a whole lot of students who are defaulting either you’re charging too much or you’re not helping prepare them for a life where they’ll be able to pay this debt back. And the idea that the colleges, once they get their certification that they are an accredited college — and by the way that’s not done by the government. That’s done by these private accrediting agencies — I want to pause for a minute — who get their money from the colleges they accredit. Anything might be wrong in that system? Have we ever tried something like that before? But once they get their accreditation they can set their prices for their tuition wherever they want. And if it turns out to sink their own students the college pays no penalty for that. So if young people are going to have to borrow money to come to your school then you should have some downside risk if they’re leaving your school in great numbers. I get that there will always be some but in great numbers. And here’s here’s what I predict, there’s going to be a distribution of schools. Some are going to have high repayment rates and some are going to have much lower repayment rates and I think the ones with much lower repayment rates are worth a look at what’s going on. david leonhardt And that’s the kind of accountability I was talking about. senator elizabeth warren That’s accountability. david leonhardt Very last couple quick things. So we asked our listeners what they would want to ask you. And one question was about what kind of cabinet you would want to form. And I don’t mean individual names but one of your critiques you’ve made of the Obama cabinet is you thought it was skewed on sort of one side of the Democratic coalition. Would you want a cabinet that mostly reflected your views or would you want a cabinet that included a range of views including some Democrats who are more conservative than you? senator elizabeth warren I would want a cabinet that believes in change. I would want a cabinet that believes that we can make this government in this economy work not just for the rich and the powerful but for everyone else. I am not interested in having a cabinet full of former lobbyists, executives who have made their fortunes off lobbying Washington because that’s how many of these executives — that’s what’s made them so successful at what they’ve done. So in that sense I want people who feel the urgency of the need for change and have a vision that we can do it. I’d add one more I’d want some risk takers. Not just people who want to kind of preside over — you know it’s really nice to dress up in the outfit and have everyone call you Mr. Secretary or Madam Secretary. But people who pitch me on what their vision is, what they’d like to accomplish and they’d be willing to get out there and take some risk to do it. david leonhardt Mitch McConnell famously said about you, “Nevertheless, she persisted.” So people now, some people have tattoos that say “Nevertheless.” Do you have any “Nevertheless, she persisted” gear of your own? senator elizabeth warren Yes I do. david leonhardt What is it? senator elizabeth warren Oh I have multiple necklaces, bracelets. I have multiple artistic renderings, in all kinds of different forms, in paintings — because people have given them all to me as gifts. So I got a lot of good stuff. david leonhardt And running for president is hard, so what do you do to unwind? F.D.R. had cocktail parties, Ike played bridge, Obama watched ESPN after a day of meeting people in Iowa. What do you do to take your mind off the game? senator elizabeth warren I play with Bailey. david leonhardt Your dog. senator elizabeth warren The dog. Bruce and I walk him around Fresh Pond. david leonhardt What kind of dog? senator elizabeth warren He’s a golden retriever. A big boy. He’s 10-months-old now and never met anybody he didn’t love. He kind of grounds me in the world. He reminds you of the priorities and the most important priority is: scratch me right there, right there, right behind my ear. When you start scratching him on his ear, he starts leaning until he falls over. Who could ask for something better? david leonhardt Well thank you for having us in your home and thank you for coming on the show. senator elizabeth warren Thank you. I’m so glad to be here. david leonhardt Now we’re gonna take a quick break and when we return Michelle and Ross will join me to debrief. Michelle and Ross are back now and we are going to talk about my conversation with Senator Warren. Hello, Michelle and Ross. michelle goldberg Hey David. ross douthat Hey David. david leonhardt So Ross, did we get you to sign up for the new agenda of Warren populism? ross douthat I mean I think she’s always interesting, in the sense that she has a well-thought-out theory of what is wrong with American capitalism. And she has an account of how to fix it that is clearly distinct, I think, from what a lot of the other Democrats in the field are doing, at least so far. Right? I mean we have this sort of general sense that there is a kind of race to the left in the Democratic field where everybody is trying to come out with the most ambitious, sweeping proposal etc. But there is a difference between what Warren is emphasizing and what the others are emphasizing often. And the others tend to be saying, here’s how we’re going to spend a lot of money on program X or Y or Z. And she’s doing that to some extent with the childcare stuff. But you can tell that what she’s most interested in is this sort of how do we encourage slash force the American business class, the big corporations, the American capitalists to behave in some kind of more communitarian slash patriotic way. And I have a lot of doubts about the specific plan for how she’s going to do that but it is, I think, really distinct from just like, you know, we’re gonna do Medicare for all and free college and you know, free childcare and so on. david leonhardt What I would add to that is that a lot of her stuff — let’s set aside her personally for a minute — a lot of her agenda is actually popular. I mean look at the polling on the wealth tax. It is much more popular than some of the signaling that candidates are trying to do to the left on things like taking away people’s private health insurance. And that’s why I think it might be influential. michelle goldberg This is when I start wondering how much policy actually matters at all. So you know again, when I talk about Elizabeth Warren I’m going to have to repeat this full disclosure, which is that my husband has been consulting for her campaign. He designed her logo. But to me in terms of policy — and it’s not just that I think her policies are close to ideal — I speak to powerful Democrats all the time who say, “Well obviously on policy, Elizabeth Warren is the best, but...” And I think that we can sort of see that reflected in the polling, right? That her ideas are extremely popular. She has by far the most comprehensive policy vision, you know, with the sort of very clear understanding of what went wrong and sort of what sort of mechanisms you could summon to fix it. And yet you’ll hear from people that she sort of reminds them of Hillary which they mean in a purely stylistic sense. And it leads me to wonder what is the salience of policy in a Democratic primary or in our politics at all. ross douthat I think voters don’t care greatly about the rigorous details of a policy plan and in that sense it doesn’t help Warren that much that she’s being more rigorous than the other candidates. I think policy, though, is really useful for signaling a general world view and a general commitment, and there I think the challenge for her is that she is signaling the same general kind of thing as Bernie Sanders, especially but also some of the other candidates who are running to the left and she’s trying to figure out a way to sort of distinguish her signaling from the others, right? michelle goldberg Right. So the way she’s trying to distinguish herself is by saying “I have a plan and I know how to do these things.” And you know what sort of fills me with despair about our politics is that I don’t know how much that matters. ross douthat Well but maybe what matters is she’s signaling that she’s the candidate who wants to change the balance of power in the American economy, while other Democrats may be signaling more that they’re the candidate of new programs and redistribution. And obviously she has redistributionary plans but her distinctive pitch is we need to deal with monopolies. We need to tax, you know, deep deposits of wealth. We need to do a lot of regulatory stuff to change how corporations operate. And so I think in a sense the primary is a test of do Democratic voters want more just redistribution primarily? Do they want free college and Medicare for all primarily and they don’t really care how you pay for it? Or do they buy into Warren’s more, you know, we’re going to restructure things so corporations behave differently approach? I think that’s that’s the distinction she’s trying to draw. david leonhardt But Ross you’re framing it as a choice, do Democratic voters want A or do they want B. And Michelle, I think your point is a lot of voters don’t even make this decision at all. They make the decision instead based on how well someone is at giving speeches, their age, their general profile, what their past jobs have been. michelle goldberg Well you know, to me it’s kind of like the “What’s the Matter With Kansas” problem in action. There’s been this debate on the left forever which is do socially conservative, lower-middle-class white voters and working class white voters vote against not just what condescending liberals like me see to be their economic interests, but what they say is their economic interests. You know what their own kind of economic policy preferences are at least in polls and focus groups. But consistently willing to set those aside because of cultural issues. If you really do believe that something has gone fundamentally wrong in the American economy, here’s somebody who is identifying that problem, who’s been looking at the way people’s lives go off the rails because of health care costs or credit card debt, and has a much more holistic understanding of what has gone wrong since around 1980. And instead she’s trying kind of so valiantly to say look let’s make this a debate about policy and I’m just not sure if she is maybe kind of overestimating all of this. ross douthat Well I mean I think there is a sense in which if you ask typical Americans — to use an overused phrase — what’s gone wrong with the economy, they would say that wages haven’t risen fast enough and the cost of certain goods has gone up. Right? And so there is a simplicity in responding to those concerns by saying O.K., we’re going to make college education free and we’re going to guarantee health care and maybe we’re going to cut middle class taxes as Kamala Harris has proposed a middle class tax cut. And Warren on the other hand, what is she talking about in the last week or two? She’s talking about doing a big antitrust crackdown on Internet companies. And I agree with you that there’s sort of a maybe more sophisticated left-wing vision in which antitrust looms large. But I think you can understand why voters might be more responsive to the message that says, “O.K., you know, your wages seem stagnant. Here’s some more money,” than the message that says “Oh this company, that is by the way really popular, that you use to buy cheap goods and bring them to your doorstep all the time, this company is actually the problem and we’re going to go after them.” michelle goldberg Right. But her argument is your wages seem stagnant because companies have become too responsive to their shareholders and they’re paying too much to their chief executives and they don’t have this sense of social responsibility. I mean I think that most people probably intuitively feel that. david leonhardt I guess the other thing I would that is it’s really early. I mean Obama was getting crushed by Clinton at this point. So I don’t think we should draw too many firm conclusions based on what the polls are currently saying. But if we’re still going to ask why she’s not doing better, I don’t think it’s a referendum on her policy agenda, which polling suggests is very popular. I think it’s much more about who she is personally. I think there are voters out there who aren’t comfortable with the fact that she identified herself as a Native American in the past. And I think it doesn’t help her that she’s an intellectual and spent years as a Harvard professor. michelle goldberg It’s so crazy she has the most sort of genuine, Horatio Alger story of any candidate in this race and has roots in the Midwestern working class in a way that I can’t think of any other politician of her stature who has sort of a similar backstory. david leonhardt Yep. All that’s true. And then I guess the final thing is I do think we need to — again it’s early — but I do think we need to think about sexism here. I mean who’s leading the polls? Men, right? Bernie, Biden, Harris is back there but but so far it does look like potentially that even in the democratic primary — maybe Ross would say especially in the Democratic primary — sexism remains a significant issue. michelle goldberg Well and one of the things that’s so interesting is that you see how many people will say that like, Biden is their first choice and Bernie is their second. And you know part of that is just maybe that those the two names that they know. I think you can’t underestimate the impact of name recognition this far out. But part of me is like, “Hmm. What do Bernie and Biden have in common?” You know? Like nothing policy wise but they’ve got something important in common. ross douthat I will I will stand up for the non-sexism, at least for right now, of the Democratic primary voter. Bernie Sanders ran for president and did extremely well relative to expectations. He was the runner up in the last primary and in the sort of historical way the Republican Party worked, which it doesn’t obviously work anymore, he would have been considered the natural frontrunner going in. Joe Biden was vice president for eight years under a President who remains extremely popular with the Democratic base. And Elizabeth Warren has existed as a prominent intellectual which means that she is sort of on the radar screen of people like us. And then as a senator from the bluest state in the union, arguably, whose chief accomplishment the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is — it’s a small thing. And it’s not sort of something that the median primary voter is going to have front and center the way Bernie’s identity and Biden’s identity would be front and center. I mean I think in many ways Warren looks like a sort of classic Paul Tsongas-type, you know, Northeastern liberal academic figure who have, whether they’re men or women, have always had a challenging road. And I don’t think we should be surprised that she isn’t running away with the nomination at this point. I think the real story here is that people in our line of work have for different reasons underestimated both Bernie and Biden all along. david leonhardt And we’ll get to Biden in a future episode soon. Let’s end on the policy stuff. If whoever the Democratic nominee is were going to adopt one part of the Warren agenda, which one would you each rank number one? michelle goldberg Universal childcare. david leonhardt What about you, Ross? ross douthat I mean we just did the episode where I explain why I was against or skeptical of universal healthcare. [DOUTHAT AND GOLDBERG LAUGH] And I think it’s vulnerable to precisely the issues that you raised in the interview, David. And so I’m skeptical of that one. I think Warren is making a mistake by trying to go after Silicon Valley in full. I think the smart version of what Warren is doing would separate Google and especially Facebook from Amazon and Apple and sort of make a bigger issue of Facebook and Google’s stronger monopolies and their control over the flow of information, which is something that Apple and Amazon don’t exercise and say look we’re not going after all of Silicon Valley. We’re going after these specific bad actors who have a different kind of monopoly than what Amazon is trying to build. So there is a longer argument there but basically that’s the piece I think Warren is right to go after Silicon Valley. But I think she and all other anti-Silicon Valley crusaders need to do a better job of basically dividing and conquering rather than trying to take on the full tech panoply as it stands. david leonhardt Well Ross, whenever you go populist I like to end the segment so we’ll end it here and we’ll be right back with our weekly recommendations. Now it’s time for our weekly recommendation when we give you a suggestion of something to take your mind off of politics. Ross, this week is your turn. What do you have for us? ross douthat All right. So this is a little embarrassing but I’m gonna do it anyway. So many many episodes ago, David, you recommended seltzer. david leonhardt I did indeed. ross douthat And I enthusiastically seconded it. I’m a seltzer drinker from like the age of seven but one of the seltzers I drink is the most like bobo, yuppie form of seltzer imaginable. It’s called Spindrift and I think they now sell it in Starbucks. So it’s sort of like, it’s gone big, it’s gone national but it’s still like this ridiculous boutique kind of seltzer and I’m recommending it mostly because one of the stores where we shop at stopped stocking it and I started buying some of the other fruit-flavored seltzer. So Spindrift is like, it’s selling “a hint of lemon,” “a twist of orange,” “a touch of raspberry,” of real fruit flavor and I would drink it and I would think well this is good. But you know, I mean, everybody’s selling real fruit flavor. I hadn’t drunk fruit-flavored seltzers from other brands for a while and I’ve been doing it for the last couple of weeks and they’re terrible. They all taste horribly artificial and whatever magic Spindrift works really does taste like real fruit compared to like all — not just like the Stop and Shop alternatives but like the Perrier. I bought the Perrier fruit-flavored seltzer and it’s awful. Spindrift is amazing. It’s a great achievement. So within the world of selzer obsessives I’m recommending Spindrift including to whoever decided to stop stocking it at the Elm City Market in New Haven. [LEONHARDT AND GOLDBERG LAUGH] david leonhardt So I have to admit I’m against flavored seltzer personally. ross douthat Yes. david leonhardt But I’m in favor of it as a societal phenomenon because most people prefer flavored seltzer to unflavored. And that means that the rise of flavored seltzer has caused seltzer to be available in many more stores. So I can more often find my beloved seltzer, but I will always choose an unfavorable over a flavored. My personal favorite is Boylan because of how bubbly it is. So to me it’s not about the flavor. It is about the carbonation and I like a lot of it. Michelle have you tried Spindrift? michelle goldberg No, I’m like not a seltzer aficionado. I mean I drink it because my kids drink a ton of it and they call it bubble water, and sometimes when I’m like really addled I will order bubble water in a restaurant and then feel ridiculous. ross douthat David, I just want you to get a Spindrift and get the same flavor from LaCroix or wherever and just drink them together. I’m not trying to convert you to Spindrift. I just want to know that I’m not crazy, because I might be crazy. david leonhardt You want me to experience the difference? ross douthat I want you to tell me if I’m right about the difference and we can we can reconvene in a future episode and discuss. david leonhardt I will do it as a blind taste test and I will let you know which I prefer. ross douthat Fantastic. david leonhardt That’s our show for this week. Thank you for listening. We would love to hear your feedback. If you have thoughts leave us a voicemail at 347-915-4324. That’s 347-915-4324. You can also email us at argument@nytimes.com and please leave us a rating or review in Apple podcasts. This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Special thanks to Kaiser Health News for use of their studio in Washington. Our theme was composed by Allison Leyton-Brown. We’ll see you right back here next week. producer alex laughlin Do you have a flavor that you like in particular, Ross? ross douthat Uh...Yeah. michelle goldberg Is that private? ross douthat No it’s just all so embarrassing. My, my favorite flavor is grapefruit. Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:  Apple Podcasts | RadioPublic | Stitcher | Spotify | Google Play This week on “The Argument,” Senator Elizabeth Warren sits down with David Leonhardt for an interview about her 2020 presidential campaign. The Massachusetts senator talks antitrust policy, her proposed wealth tax and universal child care program, and how to run against President Trump. But if that’s too much political wonkery for you, there’s a very good boy named Bailey who loves ear scratches in there, too. Then, Michelle Goldberg and Ross Douthat join David to debate whether Warren’s economic agenda can win her the White House. Ross thinks that the Democratic primary fight is shaping up to pit redistributive programs like Bernie Sanders’s against systemic economic overhauls like Warren’s. Michelle worries that superior policy may not be enough to elevate Warren with voters. And David thinks that Warren’s other liabilities — her claims of Native American heritage and her professorial background — are the biggest threats to her candidacy. Finally, Ross revisits a refreshing recommendation of David’s. Background Reading: Ross on Warren’s Native-American-heritage fiasco Michelle on the Democratic primary as a contest of ideas and sexism in the 2020 Democratic field David on C.E.O. compensation and taxing the rich, Warren’s Accountable Capitalism Act and for-profit colleges Last week’s episode of “The Argument,” on universal prekindergarten I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife. I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter. I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at BusinessWeek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot. My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy. Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter.  This week’s show is produced by Alex Laughlin for Transmitter Media and edited by Lacy Roberts. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.", "id": "5c88c6f549f0eacbf105cc78", "date": "2019-03-13T09:00:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Does Teddy Roosevelt", "full_text": " Taxing the superrich is an idea whose time has come — again. Opinion Columnist America invented progressive taxation. And there was a time when leading American politicians were proud to proclaim their willingness to tax the wealthy, not just to raise revenue, but to limit excessive concentration of economic power. “It is important,” said Theodore Roosevelt in 1906, “to grapple with the problems connected with the amassing of enormous fortunes” — some of them, he declared, “swollen beyond all healthy limits.” Today we are once again living in an era of extraordinary wealth concentrated in the hands of a few people, with the net worth of the wealthiest 0.1 percent of Americans almost equal to that of the bottom 90 percent combined. And this concentration of wealth is growing; as Thomas Piketty famously argued in his book “Capital in the 21st Century,” we seem to be heading toward a society dominated by vast, often inherited fortunes. So can today’s politicians rise to the challenge? Well, Elizabeth Warren has released an impressive proposal for taxing extreme wealth. And whether or not she herself becomes the Democratic nominee for president, it says good things about her party that something this smart and daring is even part of the discussion. The Warren proposal would impose a 2 percent annual tax on an individual household’s net worth in excess of $50 million, and an additional 1 percent on wealth in excess of $1 billion. The proposal was released along with an analysis by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman of Berkeley, two of the world’s leading experts on inequality. Saez and Zucman found that this tax would affect only a small number of very wealthy people — around 75,000 households. But because these households are so wealthy, it would raise a lot of revenue, around $2.75 trillion over the next decade. Make no mistake: This is a pretty radical plan. I asked Saez how much it would raise the share of income (as opposed to wealth) that the economic elite pays in taxes. His estimate was that it would raise the average tax rate on the top 0.1 percent to 48 percent from 36 percent, and bring the average tax on the top 0.01 percent up to 57 percent. Those are high numbers, although they’re roughly comparable to average tax rates in the 1950s. Would such a plan be feasible? Wouldn’t the rich just find ways around it? Saez and Zucman argue, based on evidence from Denmark and Sweden, both of which used to have significant wealth taxes, that it wouldn’t lead to large-scale evasion if the tax applied to all assets and was adequately enforced. Wouldn’t it hurt incentives? Probably not much. Think about it: How much would entrepreneurs be deterred by the prospect that, if their big ideas pan out, they’d have to pay additional taxes on their second $50 million? It’s true that the Warren plan would limit the ability of the already incredibly wealthy to make their fortunes even bigger, and pass them on to their heirs. But slowing or reversing our drift toward a society ruled by oligarchic dynasties is a feature, not a bug. And I’ve been struck by the reactions of tax experts like Lily Batchelder and David Kamin; while they don’t necessarily endorse the Warren plan, they clearly see it as serious and worthy of consideration. It is, writes Kamin, “addressed at a real problem” and “goes big as it should.” Warren, says The Times, has been “nerding out”; well, the nerds are impressed. But do ideas this bold stand a chance in 21st-century American politics? The usual suspects are, of course, already comparing Warren to Nicolás Maduro or even Joseph Stalin, despite her actually being more like Teddy Roosevelt or, for that matter, Dwight Eisenhower. More important, my sense is that a lot of conventional political wisdom still assumes that proposals to sharply raise taxes on the wealthy are too left-wing for American voters. But public opinion surveys show overwhelming support for raising taxes on the rich. One recent poll even found that 45 percent of self-identified Republicans support Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s suggestion of a top rate of 70 percent. And it’s not just polls suggesting that a bold assault on economic inequality might be politically viable. Political scientists studying the behavior of billionaires find that while many of them push for lower taxes, they do so more or less in secret, presumably because they realize just how unpopular their position really is. This “stealth politics” is, by the way, one reason billionaires can seem much more liberal than they actually are — only the handful of liberals among them speak out in public. The bottom line is that there may be far more scope for a bold progressive agenda than is dreamed of in most political punditry. And Elizabeth Warren has just taken an important step on that agenda, pushing her party to go big. Let’s hope her rivals — some of whom are also quite impressive — follow her lead. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman ", "id": "5c4f90893a125f5075c06c7c", "date": "2019-01-28T23:30:03+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Raises $6 Million in First Quarter", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Elizabeth Warren raised $6 million during her first quarter as a presidential candidate, her campaign reported Wednesday. That's less than some of her rivals but enough to quiet doubts about her ability to stay competitive in the chase for money. It's the first sign of whether Warren's unique approach to fundraising is working. Unlike most of her opponents, Warren has sworn off high-dollar fundraising, relying instead solely on small donors.", "id": "5caf82af49f0eacbf1f82ecc", "date": "2019-04-11T18:07:16+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Do You Understand Elizabeth Warren’s Plan for Fixing Big Tech?", "full_text": " Politicians have lots of ideas for regulating big tech. Here’s how to know which ones work. Mr. Hosanagar is a professor at The Wharton School of The University of Pennsylvania. This election season, Americans are going to hear a lot about regulating big tech. Senator Elizabeth Warren has already kicked off that debate, and it would be the tone-deaf candidate who wasn’t alert to the increasing anxiety among the public over the power Silicon Valley giants wield. According to a 2018 survey by Pew Research Center, 57 percent of Democrats and 44 percent of Republicans feel that big tech companies should be regulated more than they are now. A candidate who fails to address these issues in a meaningful way is not taking these concerns seriously. But how should we, as citizens, evaluate these proposals? Any effort to regulate big tech will have to address two main issues. The first is consumer protection. When the private sector controls so much of our data, Americans should be able to know who has access to this data and how they use it. The second issue relates to “platform companies,” services that connect two or more sides of a transaction: Google Search connects people with websites, Amazon connects buyers with sellers, Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android connect consumers with apps, and so on. The concern is that platforms can build services that compete with third-party services running on their platforms, and can easily give themselves an unfair advantage. The more visible concern is consumer protection, particularly protections for privacy. Any regulation addressing consumer protection should, first, specify whether consumers have the right to access data that companies store about them and whether firms are allowed to share confidential data with a third party. Just as important, the policy should say whether companies are allowed to make socially consequential decisions, such as mortgage approval or job recruiting, based on that sensitive information. If so, are those companies required to tell consumers what decisions might be based on such data?  These efforts get even more complicated and less transparent when algorithms are involved. Some of the best-performing algorithms, such as neural networks, are not easily interpretable, even to their programmers. At the same time, modern machine learning algorithms are susceptible to the same gender, race, and age biases that affect human decisions.  While these concerns are particularly notable with big tech, they are just as relevant for retail, health care or financial services firms. Any proposed consumer protection regulation should include formal audits by companies to verify that their algorithms are fair, preserve privacy and are reliable, at least in settings where algorithmic decisions have social consequences, such as hiring, news curation and school admissions. Proposals to regulate big tech also have to deal with how platform companies treat the firms that offer products, content or services on their platforms. Anticompetitive practices can stifle innovation and also limit consumers’ ability to easily switch to alternative products or services on the platform. Anticompetitive practices include, among other things, giving preferred placement to a platform’s own products and blocking third-party services from access to certain platform features.  For example, Yelp has repeatedly accused Google of deprioritizing its pages on Google search results. Similarly, Spotify has complained that Apple forces app developers to use its payment platform for processing in-app purchases; this ability to charge Spotify a commission gives Apple Music a pricing advantage over its rival. Senator Warren suggests that platforms should not be allowed to offer services. Under her plan, Amazon Marketplace, for example, would not be permitted to sell AmazonBasics products, which competes with marketplace sellers.  In theory, banning platforms from offering their own products and services would offer protection against anti-competitive behavior. But in practice, it is difficult for a new platform with few users to lure third-party service and product providers. So platforms often have to build some core services when they launch.  The original iPhone, for example, lacked an app store and mostly featured apps developed by Apple, including apps for note-taking, weather and messaging. This attracts an early base of users, who demonstrate that people want that service, in turn drawing other companies that might be able to provide a better version of that same service. Companies also sometimes launch services and then wake up to their platform potential later. Amazon, for example, set up its marketplace many years after its launch as a bookseller. Moreover, deep integration between platforms and services is sometimes useful to consumers: Payment is built into Apple’s iOS platform in part to increase security and convenience. Might these benefits be worth the competitive disadvantage to third-party payment services such as PayPal? This brings us to the regulatory question: Where should regulators draw the line that separates platforms from the services built on the platform? A clever proposal will be one that manages to create a logical way to separate services that are essential for a platform to exist (and which the platform is therefore allowed to operate) from those that platforms either must not operate or, if they do, must be treated in the same way as third-party services. Yes, some of this gets technical, but we need an informed citizenry on tech regulation, just as we do for the political debates over health care, jobs or foreign policy. Overzealous actions by elected officials will affect the tech industry, the growth engine of the American economy. It’s time for citizens to engage with these questions because they will shape not only the economy but also how we use the digital services that are so firmly entrenched in our lives. Kartik Hosanagar, a professor at The Wharton School of The University of Pennsylvania, is the author of “A Human’s Guide to Machine Intelligence.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c9c9b8049f0eacbf105f7e6", "date": "2019-03-28T10:00:05+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Proposes Broad Plan to Protect Public Lands", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts unveiled a public lands proposal on Monday, thrusting land-use issues and the environment into the spotlight as she continues to set the pace on policy in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. Ms. Warren’s plan, which she outlined in a post on Medium ahead of trips to Colorado and Utah this week, promises an executive order that would prohibit new leases for fossil fuel drilling offshore and on public lands, calls for the creation of “a 21st century Civilian Conservation Corps” staffed by 10,000 young people and seeks to reduce inaccessible public acreage by 50 percent. It also aims to undo some of the environmental actions undertaken by the Trump administration, which she said amounted to “selling off our public lands to the oil, gas and coal industries for pennies on the dollar,” accelerating a “climate crisis” in the process. Under the plan, Ms. Warren said she would reinstate Obama-era air and water protections and wield the Antiquities Act, a 1906 law, to restore national monuments that President Trump shrank. “America’s public lands are one of our greatest treasures,” she wrote in the Medium post. “But today, those lands are under threat.” “We must not allow corporations to pillage our public lands and leave taxpayers to clean up the mess,” she said. “All of us — local communities and tribes, hunters and anglers, ranchers and weekend backpackers — must work together to manage and protect our shared heritage.” The land-use plan is the latest in a series of proposals from Ms. Warren, who has tried to stand out in a wide-open Democratic field by matching her rhetoric of structural change with detailed policy platforms. Last week, ahead of a trip to New Hampshire, Ms. Warren announced a new corporate tax plan targeting America’s wealthiest corporations. During a previous trip through the South, Ms. Warren highlighted her plan to restore affordable housing, particularly in communities previously burdened by government discrimination. She has also outlined plans that would provide universal child care, impose a new annual tax on the country’s wealthiest families and break up the biggest tech companies. She has advocated getting rid of the Electoral College, removing Confederate statues and creating a national commission to study reparations for black Americans. A former Harvard law professor, Ms. Warren has not shied away from getting into the weeds of the policies she proposes and has offered robust levels of detail about her ideas compared with many of her competitors. In her 1,600-word post about public lands, she set a goal of generating 10 percent of the county’s electricity from renewable sources offshore or on public lands and argued for financial investment in environmental preservation. Specifically, she called for the full funding of public land management agencies in order to eliminate their maintenance and infrastructure backlog, and for the mandatory spending of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which was created by Congress in the 1960s to safeguard natural areas. Sharon Buccino, a senior adviser to the Natural Resources Defense Council Action Fund, a political advocacy arm of the nonprofit organization, called Ms. Warren’s plan a “responsible and visionary” way “to manage and protect our priceless lands and waters from exploitation and destruction.” In other words, she said, it was “just what America needs.” Ms. Warren said she would increase the AmeriCorps budget to pay for her civilian conservation corps. And she said it was “long past time” to make entry to national parks free. “America’s public lands belong to all of us,” she wrote. “We should start acting like it.” Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting.    ", "id": "5cb48f2a49f0eacbf1f84311", "date": "2019-04-15T14:01:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Campaigns in Iowa: ‘This Is How It Starts’", "full_text": " COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa — Senator Elizabeth Warren hit the presidential campaign trail in southwestern Iowa on Friday evening, making her the first declared major candidate to host an event in the pivotal state and kicking off a Democratic primary season that promises to dominate the coming year. Hundreds of people packed a room in a bowling alley just across the state’s border with Nebraska as Ms. Warren, the uncompromising leftist and ardent critic of unrestrained capitalism, tackled issues including income inequality and climate change in an hourlong question-and-answer session with voters. Though Ms. Warren’s campaign is still nascent — she announced the formation of an exploratory presidential committee on Monday — Friday’s event had all the hallmarks of a candidate meant to last: a laser-focused message on income inequality, a robust campaign staff shepherding hordes of interested reporters, and an excited supporter base eager to hear more. “This is how it starts. Person to person. Town to town. Across Iowa and then across America,” Ms. Warren said, addressing supporters who were standing outside the venue, which was filled to capacity. “All of us, together, raising our voices — that’s what’s going to make real change,” she said. “And Iowa is going to have a big part of determining where we go next.” [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The event not only kicked off Ms. Warren’s campaign, but marked the starting point to what figures to be a long and grueling Democratic primary season. Dozens of candidates, including governors, senators and big-city mayors — many of whom will be new to the national stage — are considering joining the race  in the coming months. Some have characterized the 2020 Democratic nomination process as perhaps the most wide open since 1992: The party has no single leader, no obvious front-runner to challenge President Trump in 2020, and no broadly unifying ideology as it moves away from a quarter-century of dominance by the Clintons and Barack Obama. Ms. Warren, who will be among the top-tier candidates no matter who else runs, has staked out a position as one of the party’s most resolute voices on the left. Before she took questions from the audience, she laid out her overarching premise of America’s ills: too much corporate money in the political system, a retrenchment from government regulation in the market and even overt discrimination that has affected racial minorities. “It is an America right now who works for the rich and powerful. And we need to call it out for what it is: corruption pure and simple,” Ms. Warren said. “What’s happening to opportunity in this country? Why is the path so rocky for many — and why is it so much rockier for people of color?” Ms. Warren also paid special attention to telling her personal story. To the assembled crowd about 500, which included almost 200 people waiting outside, she spoke of her Oklahoma roots and her family’s humble upbringing. She said she was motivated to run for president, not by party politics or the desire to oppose President Trump, but because her personal life benefited from an American economy that has now become too inaccessible. The event comes in a busy week for Ms. Warren. After announcing her exploratory committee on Monday morning, she has four more events in Iowa this weekend, in Sioux City, Des Moines, Storm Lake and Ankeny. The Council Bluffs appearance on Friday drew Iowans and residents of nearby Omaha. In the crowd, many of the potential voters said they were just beginning to look at presidential candidates and had not yet decided on a singular person to support. Daniel Jaimes, a 28-year-old graduate student who supported Bernie Sanders in the 2016 primary, said Ms. Warren was currently in his “top two” choices, because she speaks to grass-roots populism. Gary Himes, 70, said he voted for Mr. Trump in the 2016 election but had been so disappointed by the current administration that he intends to vote for a Democrat “no matter what.” Liel Wilwerding, a 36-year-old Omaha resident, said she was looking for a candidate who can win back former Trump voters, like Mr. Himes. “It’s important to pick a candidate who can go into these areas and be attractive,” said Ms. Wilwerding, who also supported Ms. Sanders in the 2016 primary. Ms. Wilwerding brought a gift for Ms. Warren: a cross-stitched pattern that read “Nevertheless, she persisted,” the admonishment-turned-rallying cry spoken by Mitch McConnell, the majority leader and Republican of Kentucky, when he cut short a speech by Ms. Warren on the Senate floor last year. But most of all, many of the voters said they were excited to spend the next year hearing from several candidates. “I supported Bernie in the primary, but I’m keeping my options open,” said Sarah Jane Teetzel, a 46-year-old Omaha resident. She added one caveat: “Except if I have to vote for an old white guy, he better be exceptional.”    ", "id": "5c3013003a125f5075c02efd", "date": "2019-01-05T02:14:21+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Calls for Ending Electoral College", "full_text": " JACKSON, Miss. — Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who has based her presidential bid on trying to outpace rivals with robust policy proposals, added more ideas to her liberal agenda on Monday night: getting rid of the Electoral College, removing Confederate statues, and creating a national commission to study reparations for black Americans. Ms. Warren’s remarks came during an hourlong CNN town hall at Jackson State University, a historically black college in the capital of the deeply Republican state. While reiterating her familiar positions on regulating corporations and upending Washington lobbying, Ms. Warren also sought to present new ideas to a national audience that is still getting to know her. “I believe we need a constitutional amendment that protects the right to vote for every American citizen and makes sure that vote gets counted,” Ms. Warren said in response to a question about voter disenfranchisement. “We need to put some federal muscle behind that, and we need to repeal every one of the voter suppression laws that is out there.” [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] She then noted that most presidential candidates never campaign in Mississippi or her home state of Massachusetts during a general election because those are not battleground states in the Electoral College. Many Democrats have become sharp critics of the Electoral College after Al Gore in 2000 and Hillary Clinton in 2016 won the national popular vote but lost the Electoral College vote, and therefore the presidency. “Every vote matters, and the way we can make that happen is that we can have national voting, and that means get rid of the Electoral College,” Ms. Warren said, drawing one of her longest ovations of the night. Ms. Warren also used the forum to present herself as a candidate who understands racial inequities. Speaking to a racially diverse audience, she called for Confederate commemoration statues and monuments to come down and be moved to museums. Ms. Warren was also asked if Mississippi should adopt a new state flag that no longer has the Confederate battle flag emblem. “Yes,” she said. She also said she supported a commission to study reparations, though she sidestepped responding directly to a question about whether she supported financial payments from the government to descendants of slaves “Slavery is a stain on America,” Ms. Warren said. She later reiterated her statement in a tweet: “I support the bill in the House to support a congressional panel of experts so that our nation can do what’s right & begin to heal.”   ", "id": "5c90595b49f0eacbf105dc2b", "date": "2019-03-19T02:50:41+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren’s 2020 Campaign Says It Raised $6 Million", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts raised more than $6 million in the first quarter of the year, her campaign said on Wednesday, trailing some Democratic rivals but exceeding the campaign’s worst-case fears after some early fund-raising troubles and the departure of her finance director. Ms. Warren received more than 213,000 contributions from more than 135,000 donors, with an average donation of $28, her campaign said. She also had a strong finish to the quarter. The campaign raised more than $1.4 million during the last week of the quarter from more than 50,000 donations, exceeding its goal of 35,000 donations. The numbers offer the most detailed window into the financial outlook of Ms. Warren’s campaign, which had, to this point, released little information about its ability to raise funds. Ms. Warren has raised eyebrows — and won supporters — for her decision to swear off high-dollar fund-raising events and rest her campaign’s hopes on small-dollar donations. The figures on donations came after her campaign put out urgent warnings that fund-raising was critical to perceptions of Ms. Warren’s strength. And, while better than some had feared, they still left her trailing some key rivals. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] “I won’t sugarcoat it: We were outraised by some other candidates in the presidential primary this first quarter,” Roger Lau, her campaign manager, wrote in an email to supporters on Wednesday afternoon. Based on figures released by campaigns so far, she trails far behind the fund-raising leader in the Democratic field, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who raised $18.2 million, as well as Senator Kamala Harris of California, who raised $12 million. She is also behind former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who raised $9.4 million, and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who raised more than $7 million. Ms. Warren and campaign advisers have made clear that they did not expect to match the fund-raising prowess of Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke, the two other major candidates who have eschewed high-dollar fund-raisers. Ms. Warren’s first-quarter total trails those of Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke even though Ms. Warren entered the presidential race more than a month before both candidates. However, her numbers also offer reason for optimism, considering Ms. Warren roughly matched another rival, Ms. Harris, in small-dollar donations, and raised more in the final week of the quarter than Ms. Harris did through her digital program in the final week. Ms. Warren, who won her Senate re-election bid by a wide margin in November, is also relying on a stockpile of donations she had previously collected. Presidential candidates can make use of money they raised in federal campaigns in the past, and Ms. Warren transferred $10.4 million from her Senate account to her presidential campaign, her team said. At the same time, she is spending money quickly to build up a large campaign operation. Her campaign said it spent $5.2 million in the first quarter, leaving it with $11.2 million in cash on hand. [Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.] Ms. Warren’s fund-raising at the beginning of her campaign did not impress. On Dec. 31, the day she announced her exploratory committee for president, she raised about $300,000 through the online donation-processing platform ActBlue, according to Federal Election Commission records. By contrast, Mr. O’Rourke raised $6.1 million in his first 24 hours in the race, and Mr. Sanders raised $5.9 million in his first day, according to their campaigns. A New York Times article detailing Ms. Warren’s early fund-raising struggles, which was published online on the last day of the first quarter, helped create an outpouring for Ms. Warren, handing her one of her best fund-raising days of the quarter, according to a Democrat familiar with her fund-raising. Supporters of Ms. Warren feared that she was being crowded out by Mr. Sanders on the party’s left flank, but the campaign’s surge in the final week has at least temporarily allayed some of the concern. During that time, Ms. Warren’s campaign team made several dramatic pitches to its donor base, sending emails that addressed the harshest criticisms of the campaign, such as one titled “Can she really win?” in which they laid out the campaign’s overarching strategy. The emails, which track with private conversations among Ms. Warren’s senior advisers, suggest that the senator believes several things will help her break out of the Democratic pack, including an ability to do more political events because she is not devoting time to private fund-raisers, her well-praised policy rollouts and her campaign team’s focus on digital organizing. “The relative numbers don’t matter to me,” said John Walsh, a former chairman of the Massachusetts Democratic Party. “Who has the most money? No, that doesn’t matter. It’s, ‘Do you have enough money to run the campaign you said you’re going to run?’” Candidates must report their fund-raising for the first quarter to the Federal Election Commission by April 15, but campaigns can announce numbers before that deadline. Other candidates who have disclosed their first-quarter fund-raising include Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who said she raised more than $5.2 million, and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, who said he raised more than $5 million. (Ms. Klobuchar solicited donations for the general election as well as the primary, so a portion of her total cannot currently be used.) Earlier Wednesday, Ms. Warren also disclosed her 2018 tax returns, showing that she earned about $325,000 from her books last year on top of her Senate salary. Ms. Warren had previously posted 10 years of her tax returns online, and she has called on her fellow presidential candidates to do the same thing. She has proposed a wide-ranging anticorruption bill that would require the disclosure of tax returns for the president, vice president and major party nominees for those offices. President Trump has refused to share his tax returns, defying tradition going back decades. The issue of his tax returns is back in the spotlight now that House Democrats have requested them. “I’ve put out 11 years of my tax returns because no one should ever have to guess who their elected officials are working for,” Ms. Warren said in a statement on Wednesday. “Doing this should be law.” Over all, Ms. Warren and her husband, Bruce H. Mann, a professor at Harvard Law School, had an adjusted gross income of $846,394. Their federal taxes came to $230,965, for an effective federal tax rate of 27.3 percent. Ms. Warren’s household income would easily place her in the top 1 percent of American households, according to census data. A rough estimate of Ms. Warren’s income from writing books had already come into public view from the financial disclosure filing that she made after entering the presidential race. That filing showed that she received a $300,000 advance for her latest book, “This Fight Is Our Fight.” In addition to $324,687 in writing income reported on her tax return, Ms. Warren earned $176,280 from her Senate position. Mr. Mann earned $402,897 from Harvard. Ms. Warren and Mr. Mann reported donating $50,128 to charity. Ms. Warren is among several Democratic presidential candidates who have disclosed years of tax returns. Ms. Klobuchar, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington have also done so. Mr. Sanders said on Tuesday that he would make public 10 years of tax returns by Tax Day on Monday. He, too, has supplemented his Senate salary with income from writing books. “I wrote a best-selling book,” he said. “If you write a best-selling book, you can be a millionaire, too.” Thomas Kaplan reported from Washington, and Astead W. Herndon from New York. Jonathan Martin and Jim Tankersley contributed reporting from Washington, and Steve Eder from New York. Kitty Bennett contributed research. Follow Thomas Kaplan and Astead W. Herndon on Twitter: @thomaskaplan and @AsteadWesley.   ", "id": "5cadf75a49f0eacbf1f8255c", "date": "2019-04-10T14:00:32+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Builds Largest U.S. Presidential Campaign Staff", "full_text": " WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren has hired the largest campaign staff in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election, quickly building a payroll that far exceeds her Democratic rivals, according to disclosures filed with the Federal Elections Commission. Warren spent more than $1 million on payroll in the first quarter of 2019, more than double that of rivals such as U.S. Senators Bernie Sanders and Kamala Harris, the two who raised the most money in the first quarter. The total does not include other payroll-related expenses. She spent about $566,000 on payroll taxes and $114,000 on health insurance.  Warren has said she intends to build a \"grassroots\" campaign. She has sworn off expensive fundraisers and is relying almost entirely on online donations to fund her campaign.  Building a large campaign staff can create challenges. If a campaign begins to run short on cash, it is often more difficult to cut back on staff compared to trimming other expenses, such as advertising. Warren had 161 employees already on her staff by the end of the first quarter, according to the disclosures she filed. About half of the staff, her campaign said, are positioned in early primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada. Warren has also outpaced Republican President Donald Trump's campaign hiring. Trump spent about $408,000 on staff in the first quarter, although the Republican National Committee is already working to help his reelection and has hundreds on staff. Warren isn't without cash to pay her employees - she raised $6 million in the first quarter and had an additional $10.4 million from her Senate campaign. She finished the quarter with $11 million in cash. However, her campaign disclosures revealed that she may be making tradeoffs. Warren spent about $905,000 on online advertising. Sanders spent about $1.6 million and Harris $1 million.  (Reporting by Ginger Gibson; Additional reporting by Amanda Becker and Grant Smith; Editing by Paul Tait)", "id": "5cb5402e49f0eacbf1f84630", "date": "2019-04-16T02:37:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren to Forgo Receptions and Fund-Raisers With Big Donors", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren on Monday escalated her presidential campaign’s battle against big money in politics, announcing that her bid for the Democratic nomination will forgo traditional fund-raising methods meant to cultivate a candidate’s relationships with the wealthy. The Massachusetts senator said she would no longer hold the private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors that have become typical for Democrats and Republicans. “That means no fancy receptions or big money fund-raisers only with people who can write the big checks,” Ms. Warren said in a morning email to supporters. “It means that wealthy donors won’t be able to purchase better seats or one-on-one time with me at our events. And it means I won’t be doing ‘call time,’ which is when candidates take hours to call wealthy donors to ask for their support.” Ms. Warren made the announcement as the Democratic primary to oppose President Trump’s re-election bid begins to take shape, and candidates in the crowded field are trying to find ways to distinguish themselves. Ms. Warren, who rose to prominence as a harsh critic of big corporations and unrestrained capitalism, has attempted to push the field in that direction, announcing expansive, liberal ideas on money and wealth more than a year before the first votes are cast. They include a recently announced plan for universal child care and a tax on the wealthiest Americans. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] Since Ms. Warren was unlikely to receive the majority of support from big donors, the announcement’s most important function could be its political impact. In a crowded field where the slightest factor could influence a voter’s decision, Ms. Warren is seeking to separate herself from other Democrats in the race, including Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, who have both benefited from high-priced fund-raising events and could now be under more pressure to disavow them. “The wealthy and well-connected have been taught by politicians to expect that more money buys more access — they’ve done it for generations,” Ms. Warren said in her email, “and it too often closes out women and communities of color. We have to do things differently.” [Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking: We’re tracking the Democratic candidates.] The announcement comes as Ms. Warren experiences fund-raising struggles of her own. Last week, as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — an ardent progressive like Ms. Warren — boasted a historic fund-raising haul in the first 24 hours after his announcement, Ms. Warren sent multiple emails to her supporters warning them of lagging totals. In the email, which had the subject line “We’re falling short,” Ms. Warren seemed to acknowledge that her campaign would never match the money raised by those of her rivals. “We will be outraised. We will be outspent,” she said. “We just can’t let ourselves be drowned out.”   ", "id": "5c73d2173a125f5075c0b63d", "date": "2019-02-25T11:30:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Loses Finance Director as She Struggles in Early Fund-Raising", "full_text": " MEMPHIS — On a Sunday afternoon earlier this month, Senator Elizabeth Warren began a swing through the South by proclaiming that she was running “a different type of campaign” — one that did not include high-dollar fund-raisers but was entirely reliant on grass-roots contributions. “If you think that’s a good idea, go to ElizabethWarren.com,” she told about 500 people at a town hall-style event in Memphis, adding: “Pitch in five bucks, do whatever you can.” The next morning she woke up to some news about a surge in small-dollar contributions, but it wasn’t for her: Former Representative Beto O’Rourke had raised $6.1 million in the first 24 hours of his candidacy. It was another blow to a candidate who has spent the first months of the Democratic presidential primary campaign seeking to distinguish herself from the field: She was the first major candidate to announce; she has set the pace on policy, unveiling a series of far-reaching proposals on child care, taxes and the role of large technology companies; and she defied the pleas of her longtime finance director and declared that she would stop pursuing big donations altogether, leading to his resignation. But as the first fund-raising deadline arrives at midnight on Sunday, Ms. Warren — who last year was widely considered a would-be front-runner — finds herself in a political vise. Her rivals on either ideological flank will raise substantially more money in the first quarter than she does, and her focus on policy has not yet translated in the polls. Ms. Warren’s early troubles reflect the broader challenges confronting the vast Democratic field, all vying for money and attention as they seek to dethrone President Trump. Harvesting online donations does not come easily to noncelebrity candidates, and the party’s longstanding fascination with youthful charisma — along with its current, Trump-driven fixation on electability — can outweigh qualities like experience or policy expertise. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.] The decision of Senator Bernie Sanders, Ms. Warren’s longtime friend and fellow populist, to run again has cut into her money and her potential share of the vote on the left. And Democrats like Mr. O’Rourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have offered a party eager to find fresh faces a handful from which to choose. “If Warren says, ‘I can’t raise enough money, so my way to win is through an aggressive field operation because I have fired-up volunteers,’ well, Bernie and Beto can say, ‘O.K., well, we can do both,’” said Rufus Gifford, the finance director in former President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. Ms. Warren has also faced persistent questions about her electability from Democratic voters desperate to oust President Trump. These concerns grew when she released the results of a DNA test last year showing she had distant Native American ancestry, and was immediately ridiculed by Mr. Trump. Her staff is sensitive enough about the “but can she win” concerns that last week it issued a lengthy campaign memo, in the guise of a fund-raising email, detailing her platform and résumé while offering a reminder that she is the only candidate who in recent years has defeated a statewide Republican incumbent. In an interview Thursday at the Washington office of one her consultants, Ms. Warren began making her electability case more explicit, invoking her seven-and-a-half-point defeat of Scott Brown seven years ago. “It’s what people said in Massachusetts in 2012,” she recalled about a race in which she also lagged in early polls, adding triumphantly, “I’ve started out down and I’ve come back and fought and fought and fought until, I didn’t squeak by, I beat him and beat him hard.” Ms. Warren has good reason to remain optimistic — or at least not to panic just yet. Even if she struggles to raise money in the early going, she can finance her ambitious campaign thanks to the $10 million aides say she has transferred from her Senate campaign account. And the contours of the 2020 race are nothing if not uncertain. Ms. Warren does not face the sort of unease within factions of the party that Mr. Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. do, and presidential history is littered with examples of candidates who surged late when other contenders unraveled. [Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] However, the history of Democratic primaries is also filled with would-be reformers who fell short because they chiefly appealed to white voters — and that is who dominates Ms. Warren’s audiences, even in a heavily black city like Memphis. “It was noticeable,” said Jennings Bernard, a longtime pastor and political activist, who attended Ms. Warren’s event here. “The concerns of the people in this audience are not the concerns of this community.” In the interview, Ms. Warren offered little explanation for why her policy-filled, 43-stops-and-counting campaign has not inspired a groundswell of small-donor support or gotten her more traction in early polling. “Good ideas are sustaining over time,” she said hopefully. While she is an unmistakably fierce competitor, Ms. Warren is most animated discussing her progressive policy vision. In separate interviews, two of her friends said without prompting that she did not crave the presidency as some other candidates do and would be content if her agenda prevailed but she lost the nomination. Asked if she would be happy with such an outcome, Ms. Warren answered quickly, “I’d be a lot happier than I would be if none of those ideas made it into law,” before returning to safer ground by arguing that “it’s going to take somebody fighting for those changes.” [Ms. Warren said “Joe Biden needs to give answer’’ to allegations that he touched and kissed a former Nevada assemblywoman.] While she betrayed no irritation about Mr. Sanders’s decision to run again, or the media attention and money that less-experienced candidates like Mr. O’Rourke and Mr. Buttigieg have drawn — “it’s 11 months out,” she noted, referring to the first primary voting — some of her admirers are more forthcoming. “It’s a little frustrating to see some candidates coming in — whether Beto or whoever — and start getting a lot of attention when they do not have the same résumé of other candidates,” said Kathy Sullivan, a former New Hampshire Democratic chairwoman who has not yet endorsed in the race. Making clear that her exasperation was on behalf of some of the female candidates, Ms. Sullivan added, “But there’s nothing new about that, we’ve always had to do it backward and in heels.” Other Democrats worry about what they describe as the political version of post-traumatic stress disorder following Hillary Clinton’s stunning loss. Questions of viability, party officials say, have become overwhelming to the point that activists are uncertain about following their instincts out of fear they will nominate someone who will lose to Mr. Trump. “We’re so traumatized by 2016 that we’re afraid to trust our hearts and that’s turning us all into pundits,” said Adam Jentleson, a longtime Senate Democratic aide who supports Ms. Warren. “Overthinking and voting for a candidate we like less but who we think other people will like more is the path to ending up with a candidate no one likes very much.” Mr. Trump, who has long relished taunting Ms. Warren with the “Pocahontas” slur, has already declared victory. In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. Trump said, “I hit her too hard, too early and now it looks like she’s finished.” Part of Ms. Warren’s challenge owes to timing — she is not the new candidate on the scene the way she would have been four years ago, when progressives lobbied for her to challenge Mrs. Clinton. “There were artificially high expectations early on because there was so much interest in her in 2016,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a top aide to Mrs. Clinton in the last race. “Everybody loves you when you’re the one who’s not in the race, and once you get in you’re a mortal and have to slog it out. That doesn’t mean you can’t come back and win — it’s just a different type of race.”  Ms. Warren’s most immediate challenge, though, may be money. She raised only $299,000 in the first day of her candidacy, far below the $5.9 million and $6.1 million Mr. Sanders and Mr. O’Rourke brought in for the same period and also less than Ms. Harris. In emails to supporters, asking for as little as $3, her campaign flatly says her rivals will post “fund-raising figures we won’t be able to match.” And after demonstrating little capacity to raise cash online, Ms. Warren effectively doubled down on small-dollar contributions, announcing last month that she would no longer hold big-money fund-raisers or seek wealthy donors to bundle hundreds of thousands of dollars in checks. She cast it as a decision long in the making that will offer her more time with voters. In truth, she made the choice only after a robust debate inside her campaign that led to the resignation of her finance director, Michael Pratt, who strenuously objected to the idea. At a Valentine’s Day meeting at Ms. Warren’s Washington condominium that began with a heart-shaped cake but soon grew heated, Mr. Pratt noted that campaigns often collapse when they run out of money and pleaded with her not to cut off a significant cash stream, according to Democrats briefed on the conversation. He pointed out that winning over wealthy fund-raisers across the country helped build networks that could translate into political support, not just checks. But Mr. Pratt lost the argument to two of Ms. Warren’s closest advisers, Dan Geldon and Joe Rospars, who made the case about standing apart from the field and freeing up her schedule. Mr. Pratt is not the only veteran adviser absent from this campaign. Among the others who are not involved are Mindy Myers, who ran the winning Senate race against Mr. Brown in 2012 and became chief of staff; the pollster Tom Kiley; and two ad makers, Mandy Grunwald and Marla Romash. (Mr. Kiley retired and Ms. Grunwald is staying out of Ms. Warren’s presidential campaign entirely because she has another client in the race, Senator Amy Klobuchar). Ms. Warren chose not to air the ads Ms. Grunwald and Ms. Romash made for her Senate re-election last year, determining that she was better off husbanding her resources than trying to establish herself with New Hampshire voters who live in the Boston media market. That saved her much of the cash she has since transferred to her presidential campaign, but it has also left her lagging in early New Hampshire polls. Those polls may not mean much if her fund-raising gamble pays off and she can emerge later this year, after a series of nationally televised debates and dozens more events like the one in Memphis. Wilnelia Rivera, a Boston political strategist who helped orchestrate Representative Ayanna Pressley’s primary victory in 2018, said that while a grass-roots strategy was often derided, she believed Ms. Warren could alter the way presidential campaigns are run if she becomes the nominee. “They’re up to something,” Ms. Rivera said of Ms. Warren’s campaign. “What that is? I have no idea. But we’re paying a lot of attention. Because she’s doing something that’s innovative.”    ", "id": "5ca081f249f0eacbf1e41ae6", "date": "2019-03-31T09:00:07+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Is Running an Ideas-First Campaign. Will It Work?", "full_text": " On Politics With Lisa Lerer Hi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host. [Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.] The Mississippi Delta isn’t a typical stop on the Democratic presidential primary circuit. But there was Senator Elizabeth Warren, on a bright Monday morning, winding her way through a neighborhood of worn-down shotgun houses in Cleveland, Miss. “It won’t leave my mind and it won’t leave my heart,” she told Willie Simmons, a state senator who was giving Ms. Warren a tour, as we walked by burned-out homes, trash-filled yards and empty lots. The last time a major presidential candidate stopped in Cleveland was 1967, when Robert F. Kennedy came as part of his national poverty tour, Mr. Simmons said, explaining how much he appreciated the opportunity to show a political star the need in his community. But he wasn’t sure Ms. Warren had won his vote. “I’m going to wait for a minute,” he said. “We have a lot of good candidates, and I want to pay some attention to them, see where they are.” Ms. Warren isn’t leading the polls. She’s not dominating the political conversation. And she’s certainly not collecting the most money. But what’s clear from spending some time with her in the Deep South is that, for better or worse, Ms. Warren and her team are running the campaign that they believe the country needs. While former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who’s expected to enter the race next month, has said hedge fund managers are not “necessarily bad,” Ms. Warren seems to revel in calling out the ultra wealthy, pharmaceutical companies, Wall Street banks and payday lenders. “I am tired of freeloading billionaires,” she told several hundred people in Memphis on Sunday evening. “I just want them to pay their full share.” While Senator Kamala Harris courts wealthy donors in California and in Boston, Ms. Warren has sworn off the big-dollar fund-raising events that typically eat up a candidate’s schedule. And while former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas offers a gauzy vision in early primary states, Ms. Warren is fiercely focused on policy: • She was the first presidential candidate to call for an annual wealth tax on fortunes greater than $50 million. • She has proposed a universal child-care and pre-K program. • She used an appearance in Long Island City, the New York neighborhood that won — and then lost — Amazon’s new corporate headquarters, to promote her plan to break up big tech companies. The trip to the Deep South was intended to promote her most recent proposal — a housing plan that she promised activists in Greenville, Miss., would be “right near the top” of the priority list after Democrats win the White House in 2020. [At a town hall event televised on CNN Monday night, Ms. Warren called for ending the Electoral College.] It’s the kind of unconventional, ideas-first approach that liberal Democrats dream about when they picture a progressive presidential campaign. But in a primary field crowded with political celebrities, reality can be a killer. Ms. Harris raised $1.5 million over her first 24 hours as a candidate. Senator Bernie Sanders raised $5.9 million. Mr. O’Rourke announced this morning that he’s raised $6.1 million. Ms. Warren’s first-day haul? Almost $300,000. Members of her team say they have enough money to compete in the early states. They say they expected a slower spring and believe Ms. Warren, a strong debater with serious policy chops, could regain steam once the monthly primary debates begin in June. As for Mr. O’Rourke’s first-day haul, Ms. Warren had this to say: “Good for Beto. I believe we have to tell the American people what our vision is.” She might be right. She might not be. The Iowa caucuses are nearly a year away, so the one thing she definitely has is time. Want to read more about Ms. Warren? My colleague David Leonhardt had an interesting take in the opinion pages over the weekend on how she wants to remake capitalism. ____________________ Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. ____________________ We mentioned four candidates’ first-day fund-raising totals above. Now, those numbers don’t tell us who’s going to win, or even who has the most money on hand right now. But they do offer a way to measure a candidate’s immediate appeal, and they give an indication of the relative strength of their donor rolls. None of the other 10 candidates in the race have announced their first-day totals. But some have offered other hints of their fund-raising success so far: • Senator Amy Klobuchar’s campaign said it raised $1 million in its first 48 hours. • John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado, said he reached $1 million within 48 hours. • Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington, brought in $1 million in under three days. • Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., announced that he raised more than $600,000 in the 24 hours after his televised town hall event on CNN. • Andrew Yang, a former tech executive, said last week that he had raised $350,000 in March, surpassing the threshold of 65,000 donors required to participate in the first Democratic debate. [Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.] ____________________ • Experts say President Trump’s plan to fight AIDS is sound. But following through will be far more expensive than the proposal says, and will require courageous leadership from every statehouse and city hall in the nation. • A historic snowy winter is turning into record spring flooding across a wide area in the middle of the United States. The governors of Nebraska, South Dakota and Wisconsin have declared emergencies, and Iowa’s governor has issued a disaster proclamation. • The band, the skateboard — Beto O’Rourke’s punk bona fides are well known at this point. But Reuters has uncovered a new one: As a teenager, he belonged to the Cult of the Dead Cow, America’s oldest group of computer hackers. ____________________ Senator Cory Booker has been making the same joke about coffee since 2009: a Twitter investigation. _____________________ Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c902b8649f0eacbf105dbec", "date": "2019-03-18T23:35:08+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren and Her Party of Ideas", "full_text": " She’s what a serious policy intellectual looks like in 2019. Opinion Columnist Almost 40 years have passed since Daniel Patrick Moynihan — a serious intellectual turned influential politician ­— made waves by declaring, “Of a sudden, Republicans have become a party of ideas.” He didn’t say that they were good ideas; but the G.O.P. seemed to him to be open to new thinking in a way Democrats weren’t. But that was a long time ago. Today’s G.O.P. is a party of closed minds, hostile to expertise, aggressively uninterested in evidence, whose idea of a policy argument involves loudly repeating the same old debunked doctrines. Paul Ryan’s “innovative” proposals of 2011 (cut taxes and privatize Medicare) were almost indistinguishable from those of Newt Gingrich in 1995. Meanwhile, Democrats have experienced an intellectual renaissance. They have emerged from their 1990s cringe; they’re no longer afraid to challenge conservative pieties; and there’s a lot of serious, well-informed intraparty debate about issues from health care to climate change.  You don’t have to agree with any of the various Medicare for All plans, or proposals for a Green New Deal, to recognize that these are important ideas receiving serious discussion. The question is whether our media environment can handle a real party of ideas. Can news organizations tell the difference between genuine policy wonks and poseurs like Ryan? Are they even willing to discuss policy rather than snark about candidates’ supposed personality flaws? Which brings me to the case of Elizabeth Warren, who is probably today’s closest equivalent to Moynihan in his prime. Like Moynihan, she’s a serious intellectual turned influential politician. Her scholarly work on bankruptcy and its relationship to rising inequality made her a major player in policy debate long before she entered politics herself. Like many others, I found one of her key insights — that rising bankruptcy rates weren’t caused by profligate consumerism, that they largely reflected the desperate attempts of middle-class families to buy homes in good school districts — revelatory. She has also proved herself able to translate scholarly insights into practical policy. Full disclosure: I was skeptical about her brainchild, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. I didn’t think it was a bad idea, but I had doubts about how much difference a federal agency tasked with policing financial fraud would make. But I was wrong: Deceptive financial practices aimed at poorly informed consumers do a lot of harm, and until President Trump sabotaged it, the bureau was by all accounts having a hugely salutary effect on families’ finances. And Warren’s continuing to throw out unorthodox policy ideas, like her proposal that the federal government be allowed to get into the business of producing some generic drugs. This is the sort of thing that brings howls of derision from the right, but that actual policy experts consider a valuable contribution to the discussion. Is there anyone like Warren on the other side of the aisle? No. Not only aren’t there any G.O.P. politicians with comparable intellectual heft, there aren’t even halfway competent intellectuals with any influence in the party. The G.O.P. doesn’t want people who think hard and look at evidence; it wants people like, say, the “economist” Stephen Moore, who slavishly reaffirm the party’s dogma, even if they can’t get basic facts straight. Does all of this mean that Warren should be president? Certainly not — a lot of things determine whether someone will succeed in that job, and intellectual gravitas is neither necessary nor sufficient. But Warren’s achievements as a scholar/policymaker are central to her political identity, and clearly should be front and center in any reporting about her presidential bid. But, of course, they aren’t. What I’m seeing are stories about whether she handled questions about her Native American heritage well, or whether she’s “likable.” This kind of journalism is destructively lazy, and also has a terrible track record. I’m old enough to remember the near-universal portrayal of George W. Bush as a bluff, honest guy, despite the obvious lies underlying his policy proposals; then he took us to war on false pretenses. Moreover, trivia-based reporting is, in practice, deeply biased — not in a conventional partisan sense, but in its implicit assumption that a politician can’t be serious unless he (and I mean he) is a conservative, or at most centrist, white male. That kind of bias, if it persists, will be a big problem for a Democratic Party that has never been more serious about policy, but has also never been more progressive and more diverse. This bias needs to be called out — and I’m not just talking about Warren. Consider the contrast between the unearned adulation Ryan received and how long it took conventional wisdom to recognize that Nancy Pelosi was the most effective House speaker of modern times. Again, I’m not arguing that Warren should necessarily become president. But she is what a serious policy intellectual looks and sounds like in 2019. And if our media can’t recognize that, we’re in big trouble. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.  Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman ", "id": "5c33d5bc3a125f5075c033ce", "date": "2019-01-07T22:42:00+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Wants to Stop Inequality Before It Starts", "full_text": " Redistribution is important, but it comes too late.  Mr. Vogel is a political scientist who studies how governments and markets interact. As the Democrats take over the House and Democratic presidential hopefuls begin the slog toward the 2020 primaries, their party is also debating its economic policy vision for the future. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just announced that she is forming an exploratory committee for a presidential bid, offers a program that focuses more on what the political scientist Jacob Hacker calls “pre-distribution” — the pretax allocation of economic gains. Pre-distribution focuses on how the seemingly arcane rules of the marketplace — like labor and financial regulation — affect who profits most from economic activity in the first place. In contrast, democratic socialists like Senator Bernie Sanders represent the traditional liberal agenda of redistribution through the tax system as well as generous social-welfare spending. Redistributive policies take the market allocation of profits as a given and devise ways to moderate the resulting inequalities after the fact. Let me be clear: We need all of the above to combat the rampant inequality of wealth and power in the United States today. We need progressive taxation to narrow the income gap and to generate revenue for public investment. And we need government support for child care, medical care and other services to support those who cannot work and to empower those who can. But the Democratic Party would be smart to embrace Senator Warren’s approach and a broader pre-distribution agenda as its next big idea because it deals with the root causes of inequality in America and therefore the voter frustration that helped make Donald Trump president. Pre-distribution is less costly than redistribution because it mostly entails regulatory reforms rather than big spending items, like free college or job guarantees. So it would not provoke many Americans’ deep-seated mistrust of big government as much as calls for redistribution would. Conservatives argue that pretax earnings simply reflect the free operation of the market, but they don’t. There is no pristine free market — just real-world markets thoroughly sullied by imbalances of power and regulations that favor corporations over workers. We should not be shy about revising these regulations to achieve more equitable growth. This would not undermine the capitalist economy; it would enrich it. We tend to speak of the government and the market as adversaries in economic policy debates. They aren’t. The government makes the market work, with vast implications for public welfare. Getting serious about pre-distribution means delving into all the things that governments do to enable modern markets to function properly, from corporate law to antitrust. Last summer, Senator Warren introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which tries to tackle the deeper causes of inequality in wealth and power in our country. It would require large corporations to obtain a federal charter of corporate citizenship. Employees would elect at least 40 percent of board members.  Executives would have to hold the stock shares they receive as compensation for at least five years. And corporations would have to get approval from 75 percent of their shareholders and 75 percent of their directors to make political campaign donations. Corporations are legal entities with distinct privileges, like limited liability, so it would be perfectly reasonable for the government to require corporate boards to include labor representatives. This would encourage corporations to maximize profits by investing in their workers rather than by cutting labor costs. Beyond corporations, a broader pre-distribution agenda would include labor regulation, financial regulation and antitrust. For example, the government should revise labor regulations to strengthen employees’ bargaining power, which would give them a fairer share of corporate returns. The government should crack down on noncompete clauses, which undermine workers’ ability to sell their labor to the highest bidder. And it should restrict mandatory arbitration clauses in employment contracts, which require workers to give up their right to take their employers to court; such clauses were endorsed by a 5-4 Supreme Court decision in May. This pre-distribution approach to labor would likely appeal to swing voters — in particular, ones who voted for both Barack Obama and Mr. Trump — more than the job guarantees proposed by Senator Sanders because pre-distribution means fair pay rather than government largess. Likewise, financial regulation is not just about preventing financial institutions from taking excessive risks or protecting small investors from their own folly. It is also about something more fundamental: who gets the returns from financial activity.  In recent years, the relaxing of regulations has allowed financial firms to enjoy greater profits and bank executives to win higher compensation without delivering more value to ordinary investors. So the government should reinforce the Dodd-Frank rules that constrain financial institutions from padding profits via risky trading — not further ease them, as the Trump administration proposes. It should bolster consumer protection, not gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And it should enhance the fiduciary rule, which requires investment advisers to put their clients’ interests first, not refuse to enforce it. On antitrust, the government should be warier about corporate mergers, and more aggressive in stopping dominant firms from squashing their competitors. Over the past few decades, weak antitrust enforcement has meant higher profits for companies that dominate their markets, fewer opportunities for challengers, larger salaries for managers, higher prices for consumers and lower wages for workers. Financial regulation and antitrust are central to Ms. Warren’s proposals for leveling the economic playing field. She came to prominence for her strong advocacy of consumer financial protection, and she has pushed for tougher antitrust policies to curtail the economic and political power of large corporations. The pre-distribution agenda, while rooted in the minutiae of government regulation, actually has a simple core message. It is not about rigging the system to benefit the poor and the middle class, but about unrigging it from benefiting the wealthy and the powerful. It is about shaping markets to allocate returns from economic activity more fairly in the first place rather than trying to correct inequities after the fact.  In essence, it is about giving consumers more value for their dollar and workers the wages they are due. What could be the problem with that? Steven K. Vogel (@StevenKVogel) is a professor of political science at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of “Marketcraft: How Governments Make Markets Work.”", "id": "5c2e72333a125f5075c02ba7", "date": "2019-01-03T20:36:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Apologizes to Cherokee Nation for DNA Test", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren has tried to put a nagging controversy behind her by apologizing privately to a leader of the Cherokee Nation for her decision to take a DNA test to prove her Native American ancestry last year, a move that had angered some tribal leaders and ignited a significant political backlash. But mixed reactions among prominent Native American critics Friday suggested that Ms. Warren might still have further to go. Some Native American leaders gave her credit for the apology and political figures, for the most part, played down the issue. But others remain unsatisfied. “This still isn’t transparent,” said Twila Barnes, a Cherokee genealogist who has been critical of Ms. Warren’s claims of native ancestry since it became national news in 2012. “She needs to go public and say she fully takes responsibility and that the DNA test was ridiculous. There is still something about this that feels off.” The private apology comes as Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, is set to formally launch her presidential run next week after recent visits to early nominating states like Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. It also comes after repeated calls for her to apologize from tribal leaders, political operatives, and her own advisers, who said her October decision to take the DNA test gave undue credence to the controversial claim that race could be determined by blood — and politically, played into President Trump’s hands. Mr. Trump has repeatedly mocked Ms. Warren for her decades-old claim of Native American ancestry, using slurs such as “Pocohantas” to dismiss her and recently saying she fell for his “Pocohantas trap.” However, when Ms. Warren hit back at Mr. Trump and released a DNA test to prove her ancestry, she angered members of the Native American community and left-leaning Democrats who believe cultural kinship and tribal sovereignty determines Native citizenship, not blood. On Thursday, Ms. Warren called Bill John Baker, principal chief of the Cherokee Nation, to apologize for the DNA test, said Julie Hubbard, a spokeswoman for the tribe. She called it a “brief and private” conversation. Ms. Warren’s campaign did not immediately respond to requests for comment. “I understand that she apologized for causing confusion on tribal sovereignty and tribal citizenship and the harm that has resulted,” Ms. Hubbard said. “The chief and secretary of state appreciate that she has reaffirmed that she is not a Cherokee Nation citizen or a citizen of any tribal nation.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] The apology, which was first reported by The Intercept, is a break from Ms. Warren’s previous public stance. For months, Ms. Warren has refused to acknowledge or respond to her critics on the left, focusing instead on responding to Mr. Trump’s flurry of more openly divisive attacks, which have included language associated with racist stereotypes. Native American tribal leaders have repeatedly criticized Mr. Trump’s language against Ms. Warren and about Native Americans more generally, but he is yet to apologize or tone down his dismissive rhetoric. Advisers close to Ms. Warren said she has long expressed private concern that she may have damaged her relationships to Native American groups and her own standing with activists, particularly those who are racial minorities. However, as recently as December, Ms. Warren defended the decision to take a DNA test in an interview with The New York Times. “I put it out there. It’s on the internet for anybody to see,” Ms. Warren said in December. “People can make of it what they will. I’m going to continue fighting on the issues that brought me to Washington.” Her reversal has now drawn intense reactions from critics and supporters across the ideological spectrum. “I’m glad to see that Elizabeth Warren has apologized for the whole DNA test debacle,” tweeted Kelly Hayes, a Native American writer who has followed Ms. Warren’s claims. “Connecting w members of the Cherokee nation in this way was always the way forward. Also, I hope that the folks who painted myself and others as fringe outliers for discussing this feel foolish.” The reaction was more muted among political operatives, both nationally and in key early voting states like Iowa. Dave Degner, the Democratic board chair in Tama County, Iowa, said the controversy has had minimal influence, and he has yet to hear any voters bring up the issue. Steve Drahozal, the chair of the Dubuque County Democrats in Iowa, said he was glad Ms. Warren admitted fault. “I think she took the right step. There’s never anything wrong with getting more knowledge and saying you’ve done something silly and foolish,” Mr. Drahozal said. “I think it actually takes a lot of maturity.” He added: “For Senator Warren to admit that she did something wrong shows she’s thoughtful and she wants to do the right thing.” Brian Fallon, former national press secretary for Hillary Clinton, said he hopes the apology means Ms. Warren can put the issue behind her. “It seemed from the beginning that the DNA test was an honest attempt to prevent Trump’s racist attacks from being indulged in the media, and she has seemed genuinely surprised and contrite regarding the reaction from the tribal community,” Mr. Fallon said. “It makes sense to seek to repair that relationship because in every other sense, her successful rollout pretty successfully helped her move beyond this controversy. Now it deserves to be fully behind her.” Ms. Hubbard, the spokeswoman, said the Cherokee Nation believes the call was prompted by a Wednesday opinion column in the Tulsa World by Chuck Hoskin Jr., the secretary of state of the Cherokee Nation. In the column, Mr. Hoskin said Ms. Warren was not a Cherokee citizen, even though her genetic test results showed strong evidence that Ms. Warren has a Native American pedigree “6-10 generations ago.” Ms. Warren’s test did not take into account that, for most Native Americans, culture and kinship is what creates tribal membership — not blood, he said. “This concept of family is key to understanding why citizenship matters,” Mr. Hoskin wrote. “That is why it offends us when some of our national leaders seek to ascribe inappropriately membership or citizenship to themselves. They would be welcome to our table as friends, but claiming to be family to gain a spot at the table is unwelcome.”    ", "id": "5c5488173a125f5075c07990", "date": "2019-02-01T17:55:09+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Proposes Universal Child Care", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts introduced a universal child care proposal on Tuesday, the latest in a series of ambitious policy ideas from Democratic presidential candidates. Ms. Warren’s plan, the Universal Child Care and Early Learning Act, would create a network of government-funded care centers based partly on the existing Head Start network, with employees paid comparably to public-school teachers. Families earning less than 200 percent of the federal poverty level would be able to send their children to these centers for free. Families earning more than that would be charged on a sliding scale, up to a maximum of 7 percent of their income. The plan would be funded by Ms. Warren’s proposed wealth tax on households with more than $50 million in assets, her campaign said. “The guarantee is about what each of our children is entitled to,” Ms. Warren said at a campaign rally in Los Angeles on Monday, announcing her plans to introduce the bill. “Not just the children of the wealthy, not just the children of the well-connected, but every one of our children is entitled to good child care.” Mark Zandi and Sophia Koropeckyj, economists at Moody’s Analytics, estimated that the plan would cost the federal government $70 billion per year more than it currently spends on child care programs, but would be fully covered by revenue from Ms. Warren’s wealth tax. Their cost estimate was based on the assumption that the plan would produce economic growth by giving lower- and middle-class families more spending money, allowing parents to work longer hours, and creating more and higher-paying jobs for child care workers. “The proposal quickly lifts economic growth, as the stimulus created by providing financial support to lower-income and middle-class families more than offsets the negative fallout from increasing taxes on the very wealthy,” Mr. Zandi and Ms. Koropeckyj wrote. Ms. Warren framed the issue broadly: not just as a matter of access to education, but as a means to promote economic growth and address gender inequality in the work force. Mr. Zandi and Ms. Koropeckyj wrote that the cost of child care had “weighed heavily on female labor force participation,” because some women who can’t afford it are unable to work outside the home as a result. In a post on Medium on Tuesday, Ms. Warren repeated a personal story she has often told before: that if it hadn’t been for her Aunt Bee, who helped care for her children, she would have had to quit her job as a law school instructor. Katie Hamm, vice president for early childhood policy at the Center for American Progress Action Fund, a liberal think tank, said that framing was significant. “It reflects the fact that the issue has clearly grown into the public policy sphere and the economic policy sphere, where before it had been relegated to a family policy issue or an education issue,” she said. The Center for American Progress is one of several organizations — also including the National Women’s Law Center and the Center for Law and Social Policy — that Ms. Warren’s staff consulted in developing the proposal. Ms. Hamm said the plan addressed what she identified as the three pillars of child care policy: affordability, quality and wages. Focusing on just one or two of the pillars could have unintended consequences, she said; for instance, a program that subsidized child care and set quality standards could come at the expense of a living wage for providers. Ms. Warren’s plan and her language in presenting it reflect the shifting ground on which the Democratic primary is being fought. Strongly progressive economic plans, which were the exception as recently as 2016, are now the norm, and cost is not as popular an objection as it once was. “When people say, ‘That’s going to be really expensive’ — yes, it is: This will be about four times more than we have invested in our children, but that’s exactly what we need to do,” Ms. Warren said at her rally on Monday. “I am so tired of hearing what the richest country on the face of the earth just can’t afford to do.” Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.    ", "id": "5c6c6bc93a125f5075c0a791", "date": "2019-02-19T20:47:43+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Proposes Breaking Up Tech Giants Like Amazon and Facebook", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is bidding to be the policy pacesetter in the Democratic presidential primary, championed another expansive idea on Friday evening in front of a crowd of thousands in Queens: a regulatory plan aimed at breaking up some of America’s largest tech companies, including Amazon, Google, Apple and Facebook. At a rally in Long Island City, the neighborhood that was to be home to a major new Amazon campus, Ms. Warren laid out her proposal calling for regulators who would undo some tech mergers, as well as legislation that would prohibit platforms from both offering a marketplace for commerce and participating in that marketplace. “We have these giants corporations — do I have to tell that to people in Long Island City? — that think they can roll over everyone,” Ms. Warren told the crowd, drawing applause. She compared Amazon to the dystopian novel “The Hunger Games,” in which those with power force their wishes on the less fortunate. “I’m sick of freeloading billionaires,” she said. Ms. Warren’s policy announcement sent reverberations from New York to Silicon Valley, as she further cemented herself as one of the Democratic candidates most willing to call for large-scale changes to the country’s structure in the name of equality. Among the crowded field of Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, Ms. Warren has done the most to add detail to those early proposals, including a plan for universal child care, a tax on the country’s wealthiest families, and, as of Friday, breaking up big technological giants. Ms. Warren’s regulatory plan would also force the rollback of some acquisitions by tech giants, the campaign said, including Facebook’s deals for WhatsApp and Instagram, Amazon’s addition of Whole Foods, and Google’s purchase of Waze. Companies would be barred from transferring or sharing users’ data with third parties. Dual entities, such as Amazon Marketplace and AmazonBasics, would be split apart. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.] Pressure for elected officials to place additional oversight on mega-tech companies has been building for months, particularly after revelations that companies such as Facebook may have violated customer privacy agreements. Ms. Warren is also sending a political warning shot across the Democratic primary field, where decisions on how much to embrace or reject Silicon Valley and its wealthy donors could become an important dividing line among candidates. In the wide-open nomination race, Democrats such as Ms. Warren, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have expressed a willingness to limit the influence of companies such as Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon — though Mr. Sanders and Ms. Klobuchar have yet to present clear policy details. Senator Kamala Harris, who represents many of those companies based in her home state of California, has repeatedly pressed executives on consumer privacy but has stayed away from direct calls to limit their influence. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey has been more willing to embrace the controversial corporations, who have frequently used their vast resources to lobby politicians of both parties. “Our technology industry is the envy of the world and we need policies that will foster innovation and consumer choice — but we also need stronger enforcement of antitrust law,” said Ro Khanna, the California House Democrat who represents Silicon Valley headquarters of companies such as Apple and eBay. He said that blanket statements against big tech companies weren’t helpful, but that each company needed to be “evaluated on a case-by-case basis and afforded due process.” [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Warren’s plan creates two tiers of companies that would fall under the new regulations: those that have an annual global revenue of $25 billion or more, and those with annual revenue of $90 million to $25 billion. The upper tier would be required to “structurally separate” their products from their marketplace. Smaller companies would be subject to regulations but would not be forced to separate themselves from the online marketplace. Ms. Warren, who has previously said moving to Boston would have been a “good opportunity” for Amazon, said in a Medium post Friday morning that companies have grown so powerful that they can bully cities and states into showering them with massive taxpayer handouts in exchange for doing business, and can act — in the words of Mark Zuckerberg — “more like a government than a traditional company.” During a brief interview later in New York, Ms. Warren refused to say whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was right to have offered hefty tax incentives to Amazon in return for the proposed campus in Queens. Boston’s mayor, Martin J. Walsh, from Ms. Warren’s home state, also offered similar incentives. “That’s not the point,” she said. “Before you even get into the question of do you need to change the statutes, there are structural changes you can make in the economy to prevent Amazon from dancing its way across America saying, ‘What will you offer me if I came?’” This is a refrain she has hit for years, including in a 2016 speech titled “Reigniting Competition in the American Economy.” Last year, she introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which seeks to curb shareholder power by forcing corporations to increase worker representation on their governing boards, while also reducing incentives for big companies to pay out shareholders rather than reinvest in businesses. Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute in Washington and a former senior adviser to the Senate Budget Committee, said Ms. Warren’s plan was “practical” and “necessary.” He compared big tech companies to the tobacco monopolies of America’s past, which were eventually subjected to antitrust lawsuits. “There’s been a traditional sense around the politics of D.C. that these companies are progressive,” Mr. Stoller said. “Their employees give to Democrats, they’re friendly to social liberalism, there’s an idealism to how they talk about the world. That’s been the traditional sense.” “But these companies have the moral frame of Big Tobacco,” he added. “They don’t care.” Carl Szabo, who is vice president at an e-commerce trade association called NetChoice, said he felt Ms. Warren’s plan was unnecessary. He warned that it could lead to weaponization of antitrust laws, as legislators target companies deemed to be their enemies. “Politicizing and weaponizing antitrust law is ripe for abuse,” said Mr. Szabo, who is a professor of privacy law at George Mason University’s law school. “We’ve already seen how politics can inject itself into antitrust reviews, and I don’t think our legislators should be encouraging this precedent.” Though tech giants have experienced several controversies in recent years, it is unclear how popular Ms. Warren’s antitrust proposal would be with voters. Rob Atkinson, president of Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, an industry-sponsored group, defended the power of big companies in the technology sector for what he described as benefits to consumers. “The Warren campaign’s call to break up big tech companies reflects a ‘big is bad, small is beautiful’ ideology run amok,” Mr. Atkinson said. “The proposal ignores the fact that many of the services big tech companies now provide free used to cost consumers money.” Matt McIlwain, a partner at the Seattle venture capital firm Madrona Venture Group, which was an early Amazon investor, said in an email, “Senator Warren and others with a similar mind-set are misguided on the need to break up larger tech companies.” “Companies in the innovation economy have a strong track record of creating quality products and services that are often free or at dramatically lower costs than previous services,” Mr. McIlwain said. For those closely watching the Democratic presidential nomination contest, the announcement was another example of Ms. Warren’s political strategy, which is to appeal to voters based on policy ideas and retail politics, not soaring oration or feel-good messages of unity. Among the crowd in Queens, which included more young people than many Warren rallies across the country, several said they appreciated her policy focus. “The fact that she focuses on concrete policy, this early in the race, is really aspirational,” said Milo Vassallo, who is involved in several Brooklyn leftist groups. Mr. Vassallo said he particularly liked Ms. Warren’s new proposal on technology. “Her goal is not to undermine big tech, but just make it more competitive,” he said. Kevin Murray, a 28-year-old law student who lives in Queens and who has not decided on a candidate to support, praised Ms. Warren’s proposals as “tangible.” Mr. Murray also wanted to come to the rally because Ms. Warren is the author of one of his law school textbooks. “I would’ve brought it for her to sign,” he said, “but it was a rental.” OpinionZeynep Tufekci   ", "id": "5c82724c49f0eacbf105c0db", "date": "2019-03-08T13:45:22+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Trump’s Use of Wounded Knee to Mock Elizabeth Warren Angers Native Americans", "full_text": " It’s been more than a century since the Wounded Knee massacre and the Battle of Little Bighorn, but both of these notorious conflicts were thrust into a national conversation about Native Americans and race following President Trump’s Sunday night tweet directed at Senator Elizabeth Warren. Mr. Trump, responding to a Q. and A. that Ms. Warren posted on Instagram Live a couple of weeks ago, used a line referring to Wounded Knee and Bighorn that mocked Ms. Warren’s claims of Native American heritage. In Ms. Warren’s video, posted on Dec. 31, the same day she entered the 2020 race for president, she drank a beer in her kitchen and complimented her husband, who made a brief cameo. Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly referred to Ms. Warren as “Pocahontas,” did so again on Twitter on Sunday, then took it a step further, writing that if Ms. Warren “did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!” He faced swift criticism from Native Americans. “+300 of my people were massacred at Wounded Knee,” the writer and tribal lawyer Ruth H. Hopkins, who is Sioux, said on Twitter. “Most were women and children. This isn’t funny, it’s cold, callous, and just plain racist.” Ms. Hopkins said in an interview on Monday that the trauma of the massacre hasn’t been erased by time. “It happened in 1890; it’s not so far removed. Those killed are peoples’ grandparents and great-grandparents,” she said. “It’s further compounded by the fact that the soldiers who murdered Lakota at Wounded Knee received medals of honor for it and those medals have never been rescinded.” Storm Reyes, 69, who is Coast Salish and lives on a reservation in Washington State, said on Monday that Wounded Knee and other such massacres are deeply ingrained in the memories of Native Americans. “As a Native, Trump’s tweet was equivalent to making a ‘joke’ about 9/11, Pearl Harbor or the Holocaust,” she said. “I found it awful that not only did Trump use this tragedy as a joke, weapon and insult, but that his ignorance of American history is so great that he didn’t even know that Wounded Knee was a massacre and not a battle.” In a statement, Jefferson Keel, the president of the National Congress of American Indians, condemned, “in the strongest possible terms, the casual and callous use of these events as part of a political attack.” “Hundreds of Lakota, Cheyenne, and Arapaho people lost their lives at the hands of the invading U.S. Army during these events,” he said, “and their memories should not be desecrated as a rhetorical punch line.” For those who could use a history refresher, some context: The Wounded Knee massacre, one of the deadliest attacks on Native American people by the United States military, took place on Dec. 29, 1890. It is estimated that hundreds of Sioux Indians — men, women and children — were killed by the Seventh Cavalry on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in southwestern South Dakota. Native American policemen tried to arrest the Lakota Sioux Chief Sitting Bull, and ended up killing him. Tensions grew. According to Mr. Hirsch’s account, Chief Big Foot, leader of the Minneconjou Lakota, led his people more than 200 miles toward the Pine Ridge Reservation, where another chief had invited them to seek refuge. But they were intercepted by troops who escorted them to Wounded Knee Creek. The next day, Big Foot’s people were asked to surrender their weapons. A gun suddenly fired, and the soldiers started shooting. Around 300 Sioux are estimated to have died. Congress apologized to the victims 100 years later in a resolution that expressed “deep regret” but did not provide any reparations to the descendants or declare the remote site a national monument. Mr. Trump also referenced “Bighorn,” the Battle of Little Bighorn, which was fought on June 25, 1876, in what is now Montana. At the time, the federal government was forcing tribes to move to reservations. When several tribes did not leave their land, Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer and his troops were dispatched to attack. During the battle, General Custer’s troops were outnumbered by Lakota Sioux and Cheyenne warriors in what became known as Custer’s Last Stand. In the book “The Killing of Crazy Horse,” the reporter Thomas Powers wrote: “The fighting was intense, bloody, at times hand to hand. Men died by knife and club as well as by gunfire.” More than 200 of Custer’s troops died. Ms. Warren and Mr. Trump have a history of trading barbs, particularly during the 2016 election — but his references to her ethnic heritage, especially his taunts labeling her as “Pocahontas,” have drawn the most attention. Last year Ms. Warren released the results of a DNA test that she said provided proof of her ancestry. It found that she most likely had one Native American ancestor six to 10 generations ago. Instead of neutralizing her critics, the test further inflamed criticism that she was trying to equate DNA results with cultural kinship. In October, a member of the Cherokee Nation condemned Ms. Warren’s analysis in a statement. But not all Native American leaders were upset about Ms. Warren’s DNA test. Richard Sneed, the principal chief of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, told HuffPost that Ms. Warren had always been a friend to tribes, “and we need all the allies we can get.” Mr. Trump tweeted twice about Ms. Warren on Sunday. The first tweet referred to Wounded Knee and Bighorn, then, nearly 10 minutes later, Mr. Trump labeled her Instagram video “the Elizabeth Warren beer catastrophe,” and said the best line she delivered was when she told her husband: “Thank you for being here. I’m glad you’re here.” “It’s their house, he’s supposed to be there!” Mr. Trump tweeted. Critics of the president suggested the tweets provided a distraction from the partial government shutdown (which is now the longest ever), the increased scrutiny of his relationship with Russia and Ms. Warren’s presidential bid. As of Monday evening, Ms. Warren had not directly responded to Mr. Trump’s taunts on social media, focusing instead on the shutdown entering its 24th day. “How many more before Republicans stop crushing working families and reopen the government?” she wrote on Twitter. “Time to end this.” An earlier version of this article misstated who killed Sitting Bull. It was Native American policemen, not United States soldiers.   ", "id": "5c3d31f33a125f5075c0464f", "date": "2019-01-15T01:05:52+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Formally Announces 2020 Presidential Bid in Lawrence, Mass.", "full_text": " LAWRENCE, Mass. — Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her 2020 presidential bid Saturday, calling for “fundamental change” on behalf of working people and arguing that President Trump is “just the latest and most extreme symptom of what’s gone wrong in America.” Speaking on a clear, chilly day against a backdrop of old red brick mill buildings at the site of one of the nation’s most famous labor strikes, she said workers now, like workers then, had had enough. She said that replacing Mr. Trump, whose administration she called “the most corrupt in living memory,” was only the first step in fighting back against a system tilted in favor of the wealthy. “It won’t be enough to just undo the terrible acts of this administration,” Ms. Warren said. “We can’t afford to just tinker around the edges — a tax credit here, a regulation there. Our fight is for big, structural change.” The selection of Lawrence was symbolic: In 1912, a historic labor strike was started by a group of women at Everett Mill, where Ms. Warren made her announcement. The senator drew on the strike as a story of women, many of them immigrants, taking on a stacked system and triumphing by gaining raises, overtime and other benefits. Ms. Warren described the American economy as similarly tilted against the middle class, with wealth and political power concentrated at the top. “Today, millions and millions and millions of American families are also struggling to survive in a system that’s been rigged, rigged by the wealthy and the well-connected,” Ms. Warren said. She added: “Like the women of Lawrence, we are here to say enough is enough!” Ms. Warren, 69, who took the stage to the Dolly Parton song “9-to-5,” described her own journey, growing up as the daughter of a janitor and going on to become a law professor and a senator. As a scholar of bankruptcy law, she explained, she had studied how the opportunities she was afforded had narrowed in recent decades, as the rich became richer and the middle class was squeezed. She said that the current rising generation of young people could be the first in which a majority were worse off economically than their parents, while the rich “seem to break the rules and pay no price.” In response, the crowd began to shout, “Enough is enough!” When they quieted, Ms. Warren said, “When I talk about this, some rich guys scream, ‘Class warfare!’ Well, let me tell you something: These same rich guys have been waging class warfare against hard-working people for decades. I say it’s time to fight back!” Ms. Warren touted proposals aimed at diminishing the financial industry’s power in Washington and cited her proposed wealth tax, which she called an “ultra-millionare tax.” “When government works only for the wealthy and the well-connected, that is corruption plain and simple,” she said, adding, “Our fight is to change the rules so that our government, our economy and our democracy work for everyone.” Ms. Warren also received important endorsements Saturday from Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts; Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III of Massachusetts, her former law student; and from the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. In practical terms, Ms. Warren entered the presidential race over a month ago and has campaigned in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Puerto Rico since then. But as the Democratic field becomes increasingly crowded, the event in Lawrence was seen as a way to draw a fresh burst of attention to her candidacy. Her announcement comes as she seeks to establish herself in the race as a champion of liberal policy but also as she continues to face questions about her claims to Native American ancestry and her sometimes awkward attempts to settle the issue. Although there is no evidence that claiming Native American identity helped her professionally, the matter has dogged her throughout her political career. Mr. Trump has long branded her with the slur “Pocahontas,” suggesting that she made up a minority identity. Mr. Trump weighed in on Twitter on Saturday night, making what appeared to be a derisive reference to the Trail of Tears, during which thousands of Native Americans died while being forcibly relocated from their homelands in the mid-1800s. “Today Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President,” he wrote. “Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz!” His son Donald Trump Jr. used Instagram to add: “Savage!!! Love my President.” On social media, there was immediate blowback to the president’s tweet and accusations he was joking about one of the worst tragedies Native Americans ever experienced to focus attention on his favorite line of attack against Ms. Warren. Ms. Warren stepped afoul of some Democrats last year when she took a DNA test to prove Native ancestry, which angered some social justice activists and Native American leaders who felt that she gave undue credence to the controversial claim that race could be determined by blood and conflated heritage with tribal citizenship. Ms. Warren apologized to the Cherokee Nation last week, after months of resisting her own advisers and staff, some of whom had called for her to show contrition earlier. Democratic voters at Ms. Warren’s early campaign stops have repeatedly said the issue was not important to them, but it continues to be discussed. This week, new questions were raised when The Washington Post reported that in 1986 Ms. Warren filled out a registration card for the State Bar of Texas on which she listed her race as “American Indian.” Several people at the rally in Lawrence said that the issue did not bother them personally but expressed concern that it could be an ongoing weakness for her, especially in a general election. “I think it will be more of a sexism problem that she’ll have to deal with, especially if she wins the primary,” said Jennifer Robertson, 21, a senior majoring in political science at Merrimack College in nearby North Andover. “I think they’ll hold her more accountable for her mistakes in the past.” But some other comments suggested how successful Mr. Trump has been at painting Ms. Warren as fundamentally dishonest about her background. John Boyle, 18, a high school senior from Andover, who was wearing a “Love Trumps Hate” button and said he was a registered independent, said the issue was a problem for him. “She lied about her ethnicity, and that’s not O.K.,” he said. “I think if she lies about something so fundamental as her ethnicity, what’s to stop her from lying about something bigger when she’s going to be president? To me, that really rubs me the wrong way.” Later in the day, Ms. Warren held an event in Dover, N.H., where voters asked her about topics including veterans affairs and Middle East politics. One woman said she was appalled by how much money was spent in the last presidential election and asked how Ms. Warren would change the election system. In response, Ms. Warren said she was pledging not to accept any money from political action committees or lobbyists and was not “hanging out with a bunch of billionaires hoping that they will fund a super PAC for me in a primary.” “We’ve got to walk to the walk,” she said. “If we actually believe that money has too damn much influence in Washington, then change starts right here in the Democratic presidential primary.” Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting from New York.    ", "id": "5c5edd3e3a125f5075c08db3", "date": "2019-02-09T14:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren’s Native American Ancestry Draws a Shrug From These Voters", "full_text": " LAWRENCEVILLE, Ga. — Anna Stein, 44, doesn’t have a preferred presidential candidate yet for the 2020 Democratic nomination. But one thing is certain, she says: Elizabeth Warren’s handling of her Native American ancestry claims will not factor into her decision. A.J. McConnell, 70, suspects he’ll vote for Kamala Harris, the California senator, for president. But he thinks the criticism over Ms. Warren describing herself as Native American for years is unfair, because he also had family members who once identified as Native Americans. Bobbie Pate, 69, arrived at a Warren rally in northern Georgia on Saturday a little worried that Ms. Warren would mention the ancestry issue. Even acknowledging it would give credence to President Trump’s “racist attacks” on Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts senator she said. (Mr. Trump routinely slurs her as “Pocahontas.”) “Everybody makes mistakes,” Ms. Pate said of Ms. Warren’s bumpy handling of her ancestry. “But it’s small potatoes compared to what Trump had done.” In interviews over the last month with about three dozen Democratic voters, many in early primary states, almost all of them expressed far more interest in Ms. Warren’s policy ideas than her ancestry and said that they were exhausted or uninterested by the story line. They described it as overblown, reflecting a disconnect between voters in the party’s base and some political elites, media commentators and conservatives who have been preoccupied with the issue. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] “Right now is a time to listen to ideas,” said Holly Sauers, a staunch Democrat and resident of Charleston, S.C. “That’s what we’re focused on.” Among these voters, who were mostly white and black Democrats who acknowledged their own misunderstandings about Native American communities and history, Ms. Warren is not a perpetrator of harm, but a victim of a Washington culture that delights in any scandal among politicians — and particularly elected officials who are women. Citing the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton, the first woman to be nominated for president from either major party, many Democrats — including those not predisposed to Ms. Warren — expressed particular protectiveness of their candidates this cycle. That instinct has extended not only to Ms. Warren, but also to other Democratic presidential candidates such as Senator Harris, who has faced questions about her own views, and more recently Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who has been accused of sharply criticizing some of her own staff members. “This time, we don’t want to focus on the negativity,” said Ms. Stein, who attended Ms. Harris’s rally on Friday in Charleston. She said she felt that the talk of Ms. Warren’s Native ancestry was driven by Mr. Trump. “He’s just so loud and gets people to focus on whatever he says,” Ms. Stein added. It was Ms. Warren who decided last year to highlight the ancestry issue, by giving interviews that repeatedly defended her family’s story that they originated from Cherokee and Delaware tribes and by taking a DNA test that showed strong evidence that she has Native American pedigree “6-10 generations ago,” according to results released by Ms. Warren’s office. After some Native leaders said she dishonored tribal governments and citizens by using the DNA test to assert her own ancestry claims, and some critics on the left said that the test played into Mr. Trump’s hands, Ms. Warren apologized multiple times this month for calling herself Native American for years. Whether the ancestry issue could be a problem for Ms. Warren with general election voters if she won the Democratic nomination is unclear at this early stage. For now, the issue has become a familiar narrative among Washington insiders: Republican Party officials are trying to brand her as inauthentic, and some liberal activists have expressed dismay with her approach to the whole issue. Most painfully for Ms. Warren, some prominent Native Americans have soured on her, saying she exhibited unforgivable behavior consistent with cultural appropriation. (Other Native leaders have been more supportive.) [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Ms. Warren may well face new questions about the extent of her Native claims. But criticism of her has been cooling in some quarters recently, after Ms. Warren’s apologies and her steps to consult privately with prominent critics to understand their concerns. Ms. Warren briefly appeared at the National Indian Women Honor luncheon last week in Washington to support a Native leader from Massachusetts, who was winning an award. She is also working on legislation with Representative Deb Haaland, the New Mexico Democrat who last year became one of the first Native American women to serve in Congress; it would seek to address funding shortfalls in tribal lands. Julian Brave Noisecat, a Native American journalist and activist who has criticized Ms. Warren previously, said: “Based on my conversations with tribal leaders and advocates, the consensus position is that she’s one of the strongest allies of Indian country in Congress. She has good relationships with tribes across the board. And I think that’s relevant.” Mr. Noisecat said the ancestry matter had become double-edged: More than any other Democratic presidential candidate, Ms. Warren has caused the most upset among Native American communities, but has also probably done the most outreach and is more vocal on issues that effect tribal citizens than other presidential candidates. He said though the ancestry issue had been largely discussed as a political problem, he hoped that its main impact was educational, and that more people learned about the thorniness of claiming Native ancestry without being a member of a tribe. Mr. Noisecat also acknowledged that his willingness to forgive Ms. Warren may not be universal. “She definitely made a mistake,” he added. María Urbina, the national political director of the progressive group Indivisible, said she and other liberal leaders were encouraged by Ms. Warren’s decision to apologize. Going forward, Ms. Urbina said she expected liberal activists to take their cues from Native leaders on whether Ms. Warren had adequately addressed their concerns. “Native leaders and native people should be the ones to affirm — or not affirm — whether her record shows if she’s been an ally,” Ms. Urbina said. “That’s absolutely important.” On the campaign trail, there have been relatively large and enthusiastic crowds for Ms. Warren so far, including in states like Georgia and Nevada that are far away from her northeastern base. At every event, she has also held a lottery where questions are drawn at random to answer; she has been asked just more than 100 questions so far, according to her campaign, and two have been about her ancestry. This does not surprise Neera Tanden, the president of Center for American Progress, a liberal nonprofit group. Ms. Tanden, a former adviser to Mrs. Clinton, said she expected Democrats to stay away from criticizing their own during this cycle. “There’s a strong belief among Hillary voters that the negativity during the primary hurt her during the general,” Ms. Tanden said. “And people do not want to go through that again.” This could change, of course, if Ms. Warren were to ascend to the Democratic nomination and went head-to-head with Mr. Trump while coming under intense scrutiny across the political spectrum. At her Georgia campaign appearance, a group of conservative protesters gathered across the street from the Central Gwinnett High School gymnasium in Lawrenceville, where Ms. Warren was speaking. “1/1024th chance of winning,” read one sign, in reference to the small portion of Native American ancestry Ms. Warren’s DNA test revealed she could have. During the event, too, one heckler loudly accused her of lying; Ms. Warren brushed aside the comments and went on with her remarks. Jerald Joseph, a 72-year-old Georgia resident, was dismissive of the criticism of Ms. Warren, saying he thinks Mr. Trump attacks her only because “he’s afraid of her.” “This is what he does, but it’s what’s in the heart that counts,” Mr. Joseph said. “I don’t think she lied. And in the end, we’re all the same and if her values are contrary to Trump, that’s what matters.”    ", "id": "5c6aef2e3a125f5075c0a4a0", "date": "2019-02-18T17:43:47+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren’s 2020 Strategy: Stand Out by ‘Nerding Out’", "full_text": " COLUMBIA, S.C. — The gym was hot. The lights malfunctioned. But the audience of nearly 1,000 people was engrossed as Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat and presidential hopeful, did what she does best: “nerd out,” as she puts it. After talking up gun control laws and criminal justice reform on a recent South Carolina campaign swing, Ms. Warren dug into the nitty-gritty of free market regulation and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a federal agency she helped create, which has returned more than $12 billion to people in refunds and canceled debts. Nothing made her more enthusiastic. “You may leave here and say, ‘Oh my gosh, I must be turning into a nerd, I was applauding a government agency’ — how did that happen?” Ms. Warren joked with the crowd at Columbia College in South Carolina. [Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker] Almost one month into her presidential campaign, Ms. Warren’s passion for policy minutiae has become her way of standing out in an increasingly crowded Democratic field, establishing herself as a wonk’s wonk whose expansive ideas and detail-oriented speaking style are her bid for a good first impression on voters. While other Democrats have focused on sweeping themes of unity or change, as Senator Kamala Harris of California did on Sunday at a campaign kickoff rally, Ms. Warren is making a personal and political wager that audiences care more about policy savvy than captivating oration. It is a bet intended to draw contrasts with President Trump, who rarely delves into policy, but also to put pressure on Democratic rivals. In what promises to be a nomination contest featuring many candidates with broadly similar ideologies, a strategy of highlighting even the smallest differences in policy could pay off, especially with liberal voters who want firm and thorough positions rather than squishy generalities that could be setups for compromise. “There will be a lot of diagnosing of problems in the Trump era, and it’s important to have a Democratic candidate who has the correct diagnosis of a fundamentally corrupt economic and political system,” said Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has been openly supportive of Ms. Warren. “But voters — especially voters in Iowa, New Hampshire and other states that have the ability to get to know these candidates well — they want to hear real solutions, and that means a certain level of detail and not just platitudes.” On one level Ms. Warren is running as herself: a former Harvard law professor who likes getting into the weeds of policy. She is also trying to avoid the political trap of adopting a poll-tested, all-things-to-all-people persona and coming off as inauthentic. But some Democrats say she runs the risk of being seen as out of touch and too intellectual and offbeat. Patrick Morgan, a Nebraska resident who attended Ms. Warren’s recent event in Council Bluffs, Iowa, said he wished she had more “charisma” and “energy.” David Briggs, who attended a Warren event in Des Moines, said he worried about her ability to go beyond traditional issues and inspire the country. “I’d love for her to just go straight into office, but I worry she can’t bring people together and beat the Republican Party,” Mr. Briggs said. Ms. Warren’s political strategists believe that after years of Mr. Trump’s leaning on catchphrases and easy-to-digest proposals like “build the wall,” Democrats want a nominee who articulates a detailed vision for America. They point to the 2018 midterm elections, where several successful Democratic candidates talked at length about issues and tried to engage voters directly by their favorite means: streaming themselves on Instagram Live in some cases, expounding on bankruptcy law in others. The way Ms. Warren talks, she lets voters know “she’s not just blowing hot air,” said Ben Wikler, Washington director for the liberal group MoveOn. “She has her arms totally wrapped around the problems she’s discussing.” “There’s an adage in comedy that you want jokes that reward the people who get them, but don’t punish the people who don’t,” Mr. Wikler added. “Policy details in politics works the same way. What Warren is great at is digging into legislative numbers without making people’s eyes glaze over.” Her approach is on display during the question-and-answer portion of Ms. Warren’s events, which is a hallmark of each campaign stop and relies on a lottery system instead of prescreening questions. The result: extended riffs about Puerto Rican debt restructuring, the history of denying black Americans access to mortgage subsidies, renewable energy policies like net metering and the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 2018. “You want me to get this crowd up on net metering?” Ms. Warren called out to a New Hampshire audience this month, referring to a system in which solar panels or other green energy generators are connected to a public-utility power grid. “Do I have any net metering wonks out here? I’m a big believer in net metering.” In another question-and-answer moment in Des Moines, a man named Jeffrey Goetz thanked Ms. Warren for her longtime scholarship around bankruptcy law. “I’m a bankruptcy practitioner, Chapter 11. Thank you for sponsoring the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 2018,” Mr. Goetz said. “Yes, it’s a nerd thing,” Ms. Warren responded, drawing laughter from the crowd. “It’s a nerd thing,” Mr. Goetz agreed. “It’s absolutely a nerd thing.” Republicans and Democrats alike tried to portray Hillary Clinton as inauthentic in her 2016 and 2008 runs for president, invoking her paid speeches to Wall Street firms and her earlier vote in support of the Iraq war. And many of Republicans who ran in 2016 also struggled to define themselves and not have Mr. Trump do the job for them; his pejorative nicknames for rivals like “Low Energy” Jeb Bush, “Lyin’ Ted” and “Liddle Marco” did political damage. Mr. Trump is already trying to do the same to Ms. Warren by slurring her as “Pocahontas” and casting her as too liberal for the American electorate. But her tendency to embrace her inner wonk predates that nickname and is not a newly conjured attempt to push back at him. Ms. Warren was the first major candidate to enter the presidential race and begin touring early primary states, and it remains to be seen which of her fellow Democratic candidates will prioritize laying out a policy-driven vision for voters to latch onto and which will ground their candidacy on their supposed ability to beat Mr. Trump. Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who is considering a second presidential run, upended the Democratic Party by running in 2016 on bold promises such as single-payer health insurance and tuition-free college, yet he rarely strays from his favored set of issues. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., also considering a 2020 run, has so far grounded his pitch to voters in electability, telling one Democrat, “I don’t see the candidate who can clearly do what has to be done to win.” Even a fresh national face like Ms. Harris, who announced her presidential candidacy last week, has taken a more cautious approach to campaigning at her first three events. On Friday, Ms. Harris spoke at a ticketed gala for members of her collegiate sorority, she hosted a kickoff rally in Oakland on Sunday afternoon and she is set to participate in a CNN-moderated town-hall-style meeting in Iowa on Monday night. Faiz Shakir, national political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, said candidates would be wise to mimic Ms. Warren’s willingness to focus on policy. On Thursday, Ms. Warren announced a plan that would impose a new annual tax on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the United States. The proposal would raise $2.75 trillion in tax revenue over a decade, according to calculations by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, two University of California-Berkeley economists who consulted with Ms. Warren on the plan. “Elizabeth Warren is trying to position herself as the ideas candidate of the field, and thus far, in the early going, she’s winning that,” Mr. Shakir said. “Others should start thinking about competing in the arena for new ideas.”   ", "id": "5c4e11ad3a125f5075c0695c", "date": "2019-01-27T20:16:44+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Disclosure Forms Show $300,000 Book Advance, Other Assets", "full_text": " Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat running for president, received a $300,000 book advance for her latest book, “This Fight Is Our Fight,” according to financial disclosure forms filed with federal elections officials on Tuesday. Other than the book advance, the forms paint a similar picture of Ms. Warren’s finances as her previous publicly available financial statements. While the senator has shaped her political brand around fighting unrestrained capitalism and reining in wealth inequality, she remains fairly wealthy herself: Her combined assets with her husband, reported through a variety of ordinary investment accounts, range between about $4 million and $11 million. Ms. Warren has between $500,000 and $1 million in an annuity. The documents also showed Ms. Warren retained her title as “emeritus professor” at Harvard Law School, where she was a professor before entering public office. Ms. Warren reported no debts. Ms. Warren’s personal wealth places her well behind several other senators in terms of personal wealth, though Roll Call ranked her as the 69th wealthiest member of Congress a year ago. Members of Congress tend to be far wealthier than the average American, and Ms. Warren is the first presidential hopeful to swiftly release her personal financial disclosure. Ethics rules require presidential candidates to release the financial disclosures within weeks of announcing their candidacy, though candidates are also allowed to ask for an extension (Texas Democrat Julian Castro already has). [Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.] Like Ms. Warren, other Democratic contenders have pledged to be similarly transparent throughout the nomination process — in part because they want to draw sharp contrasts with President Trump. Mr. Trump has released his personal financial disclosure form, but a large portion of his financial history remains unknown. Unlike every other president in modern history, he has refused to release his tax returns. Ms. Warren’s financial disclosure forms were first reported by The Center for Public Integrity in Washington. She has released 10 years of tax returns on her website, stretching back to her first year in public office. In those forms, Ms. Warren and her husband reported an adjusted gross income of $913,000. The returns listed their total tax as about $268,000 and their total tax payments as $302,227. They were eligible for a refund of $34,000. On the campaign trail, Ms. Warren frequently mentions her transparency regarding tax returns, and her policy proposal called the “Anti-Corruption and Public Integrity Act,” which would, among other things, require all candidates for federal office to release their taxes before taking office. That same proposal would “end lobbying as we know it,” Ms. Warren says, by eliminating foreign lobbying, ban stock trading from members of Congress, and not allow individuals to frequently rotate between public service jobs and lobbying firms. She has made “corruption” a central theme of her presidential message. “It is an America right now who works for the rich and powerful. And we need to call it out for what it is: corruption pure and simple,” Ms. Warren said in Iowa. “What’s happening to opportunity in this country? Why is the path so rocky for many — and why is it so much rockier for people of color?”    ", "id": "5c59e7413a125f5075c08233", "date": "2019-02-05T19:42:53+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "On Politics: Elizabeth Warren Is Running for President", "full_text": " Good Tuesday morning and Happy New Year. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today. _____________________ • Senator Elizabeth Warren, a sharp critic of big banks and unregulated capitalism, is running for president in 2020. Ms. Warren said she was forming a presidential exploratory committee, which allows her to raise money and hire staff before a formal kickoff. • Ms. Warren’s announcement marks the beginning of a new year and new campaign that will feature an unusually large number of Democrats seeking the presidency. The question is: Who, if anyone, matches the political moment? • With the next presidential election almost two years away, Ms. Warren and other candidates may seem to be starting their campaigns early. But they’re actually right on schedule. • House Democrats have agreed on a proposal to end the partial government shutdown that would extend current levels of funding for the Department of Homeland Security, but that doesn’t include money for President Trump’s border wall. • John F. Kelly, the departing White House chief of staff, said the Trump administration had long since abandoned the idea of a concrete border wall. • Mr. Trump has agreed to give the military about four months to withdraw the 2,000 United States troops in Syria, a backtrack from his abrupt order two weeks ago that the military pull out within 30 days. • Letitia James, New York’s new attorney general, has been forthright in her desire to use her office to pursue Mr. Trump. But her strident attacks on the president could threaten the legal standing of cases that her office brings against him and his business interests. • A year after the retirement of a prominent appeals court judge accused of sexual harassment, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote that the federal judicial system must do more to protect law clerks and other employees from abusive conduct. • The Democratic sweep in Orange County is the latest sign of a huge political and cultural shift in a former Republican stronghold. • Just a few weeks after a Russian operative was convicted of conspiracy in the United States, an American citizen has been detained in Moscow on espionage charges. _____________________ Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York. Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c2af8393a125f5075c026c9", "date": "2019-01-01T05:18:48+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "‘He May Not Even Be a Free Person,’ Elizabeth Warren Says of Trump in 2020", "full_text": " CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa — Countless Democratic leaders have urged the party not to spend the 2020 campaign tangling with President Trump over tweets and taunts. But Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts made a novel argument on Sunday for ignoring the president: He could soon be in jail. Addressing a crowd of several hundred at the Veterans Memorial Building in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Ms. Warren said it was up to Democrats to decide whether they would spend every day parrying “a racist tweet, a hateful tweet, something really dark and ugly” from the president. She said the party should ask: “Are we going to let him use those to divide us?” “By the time we get to 2020, Donald Trump may not even be president,” Ms. Warren said. “In fact, he may not even be a free person.” Prodded by reporters to explain the remark a few hours later in Iowa City, Ms. Warren said she was simply noting the proliferation of inquiries into the president. “It’s no longer just the Mueller investigation,” Ms. Warren said. “They’re everywhere and these are serious investigations, so we’ll see what happens.” In addition to the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, into Russian interference in the 2016 election, there are continuing investigations spearheaded by federal prosecutors in New York and by the Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. Mr. Trump has denied any wrongdoing related to the 2016 campaign and Russia, and there is no indication that the president himself could be indicted or incarcerated before the 2020 election. Ms. Warren’s remark was an unusually blunt jab at Mr. Trump, from a candidate who has largely declined to spar personally with the president since her entry into the 2020 race. Mr. Trump has repeatedly ridiculed Ms. Warren, often in personal terms and with racist slurs, for having in the past identified herself as having Native American ancestry. Ms. Warren recently apologized to the Cherokee Nation for having done so. On Saturday, Mr. Trump appeared to invoke the Trail of Tears, the infamously cruel forced relocation of Native Americans in the early 19th century that caused thousands of deaths, when he mocked Ms. Warren on Twitter: “See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz.” Ms. Warren did not refer explicitly to the Twitter post on Sunday. [For those who need a refresher, here is a brief history of the Trail of Tears.] Aside from the imprisonment crack, Ms. Warren spent little time in Iowa discussing Mr. Trump’s legal issues and caustic persona. She played down talk of impeachment and stressed to reporters that she was focused on “structural” problems that “were broken long before Donald Trump got here.” She was not the only Democrat to suggest obliquely in Iowa this weekend that Mr. Trump might meet a swift downfall of some kind. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, in his first trip to Iowa as a presidential candidate, suggested in passing on Saturday that if he won the Democratic nomination, he was not certain he would face Mr. Trump in the general election. “Should I be our nominee and Trump also be the nominee — I’m not sure if he will be — but if he is the nominee, you will see the toughest, strongest person standing against him,” Mr. Booker said. “Whatever he wants to throw at me, bring it.”   ", "id": "5c60b86d3a125f5075c08fe0", "date": "2019-02-10T23:47:30+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Elizabeth Warren Wants a Wealth Tax. How Would That Even Work?", "full_text": " There are other tools that don’t involve quite the risks and challenges of targeting the richest families.  When the United States government wants to raise money from individuals, its mode of choice, for more than a century, has been to tax what people earn — the income they receive from work or investments. But what if instead the government taxed the wealth you had accumulated? That is the idea behind a policy Senator Elizabeth Warren has embraced in her presidential campaign. It represents a more substantial rethinking of the federal government’s approach to taxation than anything a major presidential candidate has proposed in recent memory — a new wealth tax that would have enormous implications for inequality. It would shift more of the burden of paying for government toward the families that have accumulated fortunes in the hundreds of millions or billions of dollars. And over time, such a tax would make it less likely that such fortunes develop. It would create big new challenges for the I.R.S. in ensuring compliance. There is a reason many European countries that once had a wealth tax have abandoned it in the last couple of decades. And that’s before you get to the legal and political challenges. There is an open debate around whether a wealth tax is constitutional. And some of the most powerful families in the country would certainly deploy their vast resources against a wealth tax, and against any candidate who embraces it. The comedian Chris Rock had a routine in the early 2000s in which he expounded on the distinction between those who are rich and those who are wealthy. Shaquille O’Neal, the star basketball player, was rich, Mr. Rock said. The team owner who signed his paycheck was wealthy. And that, in a nutshell, gets at the conceptual difference between trying to tax people’s income, as the tax code does today, versus their wealth. The C.E.O. of Walmart makes about $22 million a year. He is rich by any definition. But the Walton family, descendants of the company’s founder, are mind-bogglingly wealthy. The Bloomberg Billionaires index estimates that Sam Walton’s three living children are worth around $45 billion each, putting them each among the 20 wealthiest people in the world. A family that has accumulated enormous wealth can escape with surprisingly low income levels, and therefore tax burdens. In an extreme example, Warren Buffett owns enough stock in Berkshire Hathaway to put his estimated net worth at $84 billion, but he pays himself $100,000 a year to be its chief executive. Even in years when his wealth rises by billions, he must pay tax only on his comparatively modest income and on the gains from shares that he chooses to sell. Ms. Warren and other advocates of a wealth tax argue that this accumulation of untaxed or lightly taxed wealth is a bad thing. They say that it enables the creation of democracy-distorting dynasties who accumulate political power, and that tax policy should be used to rein them in more than the current tax code does. Developed by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, two University of California, Berkeley, economists who are leading scholars of inequality, the proposal is to tax a family’s wealth above $50 million at 2 percent a year, with an additional surcharge of 1 percent on wealth over $1 billion. Mr. Saez and Mr. Zucman estimate that 75,000 households would owe such a tax, or about one out of 1,700 American families. A family worth $60 million would owe the federal government $200,000 in wealth tax, over and above what they may owe on income from wages, dividends or interest payments. If the estimates of his net worth are accurate, Mr. Buffett would owe the I.R.S. about $2.5 billion a year, in addition to income or capital gains taxes. The Waltons would owe about $1.3 billion each. The tax would therefore chip away at the net worth of the extremely rich, especially if they mainly hold investments with low returns, like bonds, or depreciating assets like yachts. It would work a little like the property tax that most cities and states impose on real estate, an annual payment tied to the value of assets rather than income. But instead of applying just to homes and land, it would apply to everything: fine art collections, yachts and privately held businesses.  They are both philosophical and practical. On the philosophical side, you can argue that people who have earned money, and paid appropriate income tax on it, are entitled to the wealth they accumulate. Moreover, the wealth that individual families accumulate under the current system is arguably likelier to be put to work investing in large-scale projects that make the economy stronger. They can invest in innovative companies, for example, or huge real estate projects, in ways that small investors generally can’t. It could disincentivize the kinds of moonshot investments that don’t pay steady, predictable returns but can transform society. After all, if wealthy investors are on the hook for a wealth tax every year, they may strongly favor investments that pay a steady, reliable dividend over those that are risky and will take many years to pay off. Then there are the practical concerns. Figuring out a person’s total net worth can be a lot of work. Just ask anyone who has had to sort through a large estate after the death of a relative to submit estate taxes. If the deceased owned financial assets like stock and bonds, it’s pretty easy to check a brokerage statement and surmise the value. But if the estate consisted of a collection of rare antiques — or interests in various real estate or oil and gas projects, or closely held companies — estimating the value is harder. It can require an army of appraisers and other experts and an often prolonged period of I.R.S. audits and disputes over valuation. “Presumably, a wealth tax would apply to the same sort of base, except that it would be annual rather than just when a person dies,” said Beth Shapiro Kaufman, an estates lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale. The very wealthy would have a permanent, continuing need to tally the value of their assets and defend those valuations to the federal government. The Warren plan includes substantial new funding for I.R.S. staff to enforce the law. And some people may have their wealth tied up in things not easily converted to cash. An early investor in Uber or another company that has achieved a high valuation without going public might have a high enough net worth to owe a wealth tax, but not the easily accessible funds to pay it. Mr. Zucman argues that people wealthy enough to owe this tax would generally have ample access to credit, and that the law could even be structured to let people pay their tax obligations with illiquid assets. Gene Sperling, a former National Economic Council director in the Obama and Clinton administrations who now supports a wealth tax, said: “If we were sitting here in 1932 saying we need to create a Social Security system, it would have seemed very complex, but if it’s important enough, you don’t let some complexity become a reason not to push forward.” The wealth tax Ms. Warren proposes would also apply to assets that American citizens own overseas. So in theory, a wealthy American citizen would owe tax on his Panamanian bank account and his Swiss ski chalet. Ensuring payment would be tricky, which is why the proposal includes all those new I.R.S. employees and stronger international coordination to stop tax avoidance and evasion — as well as an “exit fee” that Americans would need to pay if they sought to renounce their citizenship. There’s an old line attributed to a 17th-century French politician that the art of taxation is to pluck a goose so as to obtain the largest possible quantity of feathers with a minimum amount of hissing. In the recent past, wealth taxes have failed that test. In the early 2000s, 10 developed countries had a net wealth tax, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That is now down to three, the O.E.C.D said: Switzerland, Norway and Spain. France recently changed its wealth tax into a tax only on real estate, more akin to the American property tax. One problem was that some of the wealth tax plans kicked in at a relatively low level, meaning a vast number of upper-middle-class people faced its nuisance and expense. In Europe, especially, it created incentives for people to relocate. Mr. Zucman says the United States, as a large country, is better positioned than small countries where wealthy citizens are likely to be highly mobile already. The idea is that Americans will be less likely to renounce their citizenship to avoid paying out a couple of percent of their net worth every year. An income tax is clearly authorized by the 16th Amendment, which states that Congress has the power to “lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived.” A wealth tax is more likely to raise constitutional questions, and it’s a near certainty that well-funded opponents would wage a legal battle against it. (Josh Barro at New York Magazine lays out the legal questions here.) There is. Some tax experts say changes to existing law would accomplish many of the goals of a wealth tax. One example that Leonard Burman of Syracuse University and the Urban Institute has suggested is to eliminate a provision of current law in which assets that increase in value can go essentially untaxed across generations. If you start a company and its value appreciates over your lifetime, then it is transferred to a family member upon your death, no capital gains taxes are collected on those decades of appreciation. The family member gets to start over at its current valuation for capital gains purposes. This “step-up” provision is one of numerous ways that families can accumulate great wealth with minimal taxation. It could be eliminated. Laws could be changed to make it harder to avoid the estate tax, which currently kicks in at about $11 million for an individual and about $23 million for a married couple. If you want a tax system that leans more aggressively against dynastic wealth and high inequality, there are, in other words, tools that don’t involve quite the risks and challenges of a wealth tax. But those are a lot harder to capture in a campaign ad, and in the public imagination. An earlier version of this article misstated the threshold for estate tax. It is around $23 million for a married couple, not around $11 million. Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of “The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.”  @Neil_Irwin • Facebook ", "id": "5c6a827d3a125f5075c0a3c3", "date": "2019-02-18T10:00:02+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "With Elizabeth Warren Visit, Iowans Get the First Taste of 2020: ‘I’m Ready to Be Convinced’", "full_text": " DES MOINES — Allison Kipp is all in for Senator Elizabeth Warren’s presidential campaign, but she was the exception. Ben Miller, a 21-year-old student at Iowa State University, said he wants to vote for an economic populist, and if Senator Bernie Sanders runs again it will be a “tough choice” between him and Ms. Warren. Charles Miller, Ben’s father, said he expects to vote for Ms. Warren, but is also intrigued by a Democrat who could be described as her ideological opposite: Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York. “As Democrats, we haven’t seen a big field like this in a long time,” said the elder Mr. Miller, a 47-year-old resident of Ankeny, Iowa. “And as long as they keep it positive, as long as there’s no personal attacks and they just share their views, it’s going to be a good thing.” “I’m ready to be convinced.” Such is the mood of Iowa Democrats, who are currently feeling somewhat spoiled after a visit by Ms. Warren this weekend — more than a year before a single vote is cast in the state’s caucuses — unofficially kicked off the 2020 Democratic presidential primary. The party’s 2016 primary was defined by rigid and bitter lanes of Hillary Clinton and Mr. Sanders, but as the 2020 nomination process begins, the state’s voters are giddy at the prospect of a crowded field that could feature more than a dozen candidates across the ideological spectrum. Angry at Wall Street? There’s Ms. Warren, the longtime critic of unrestrained markets and big corporations, but also Mr. Sanders or Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who are both mulling presidential runs. Those eager for a female candidate may be able to choose between Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is expected to announce a presidential campaign this month, and other potential candidates, including Senators Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. At least five of the expected major candidates will support liberal wish-list policies such as Medicare for All. \"There's no magic formula,\" said Allison Kipp, 39, who brought her daughter to a rally for Ms. Warren in Des Moines on Saturday. \"You can't know what Trump will do or say. We need to find someone that inspires\" Democrats. The field of potential 2020 Democratic nominees will be perhaps the most wide open since 1992: with no obvious front-runner to challenge President Trump, and no broadly unifying political ideology as it moves away from decades of dominance by the Clintons and former President Barack Obama. The result is a robust debate about the party’s direction, which some voters believe is overdue. Iowa, because of its first-in-the-nation presidential caucus, has long played in outsized role in determining the outcomes of such political fights. Though other, more diverse states have long complained of its influence, voters in Iowa take pride in being good adjudicators of political sensibilities. Iowans like Ms. Kipp believe the Democratic Party must select the candidate with the boldest vision that energizes base voters, regardless of political constraints. Gary Himes, 70, prefers a more incremental approach. Mr. Himes voted for Mr. Trump in the 2016 general election after a lifetime as a Democrat, and said a candidate like former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. can win over former Democrats the party may have lost. \"I wanted change,\" Mr. Himes said, of his 2016 vote. He has now pledged to support the Democratic nominee in 2020 no matter who he or she is. \"I went off track but now I'm back on,\" he said. [Joe Biden’s allies say he sees himself as Democrats’ best hope in 2020.] Throughout Ms. Warren’s weekend tour of Iowa, the first for a declared major candidate, residents and Democratic primary voters said the prospect of a large field had already impacted their decision calculus. Instead of being deferential to a singular preferred candidate, many listed a top tier, considering they felt fondly about several members of the presumed field. Cassandra Flomo, 69, said she expects to use most of 2019 to hear out different candidates, deciding even later in the process than usual. Ms. Flomo said she enjoyed Ms. Warren’s Des Moines rally, but also was intrigued by Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey. Ms. Flomo, who supported Mrs. Clinton, said Democrats were “too nasty” to each other in the 2016 presidential primary and that she hopes the large field will help damper tensions. “I don’t want any of that in-house fighting,” said Ms. Flomo. “Old people and young people, they were too divided. There just needs to be more inclusion.” “I’m looking for a vibe,” said Carolyn Briggs, a 63-year-old Iowan who works at Des Moines Area Community College. “I need to be in the same room as someone and just look into their eyes. There’s just some feeling you get.” She was attending Ms. Warren’s Des Moines rally on Saturday with her husband, David, who had wanted to watch the speech on television. His wife said no. “In this state, we’re political animals, and we want to get to know the candidates,” she said. “We want them to come to our homes and into our schools. Only then: you’ll know.” During stops in her five-city Iowa tour, Ms. Warren laid several markers for the Democratic candidates who will soon join her on the trail. She repeatedly called for Democrats to disavow corporate money and self-funding candidates, a warning shot possibly aimed at Mr. Bloomberg. She also repeated several times that the country needs “systemic” and “structural” changes, a pointed response to the Democrats more focused on beating Mr. Trump than laying out a personal framework. “I think that what our 2020 issue will be is how we talk about what we stand for,” Ms. Warren said Sunday in Ankeny. “Our affirmative vision of how we build a country that reflects our best values. That’s what I try to talk about every chance I get.” “I want to put on the table an idea. And that is we need change — and not just one statute here or one law there,” she said. “We need big structural change.” The ideas impressed Ms. Briggs, the Iowan who told her husband they needed to see Ms. Warren in person. In a text message sent after the rally, she said Ms. Warren gave her the elusive “vibe” she seeks in quality presidential candidates. “She’s not pedantic. She assumes her audience is intelligent and doesn’t speak down to him,” Ms. Briggs said. “So far, she’s my number one,” she added — emphasizing “so far.”  ", "id": "5c3323323a125f5075c0323e", "date": "2019-01-07T10:00:04+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Shutdown, Elizabeth Warren, Golden Globes: Your Weekend Briefing", "full_text": " Good morning. Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The partial government shutdown is entering its third week. Negotiations between Vice President Mike Pence and congressional aides from both parties yielded little progress on Saturday. The two sides are scheduled to meet again this afternoon, but there is little reason to believe that President Trump’s demand for more than $5 billion for a wall at the southern border will be met anytime soon. The president’s fixation on a border wall, a favorite talking point since his campaign, has left him in a political box of his own making, our reporters write in a news analysis. If the partial shutdown continues a week longer, it will officially be the longest in U.S. history. Here’s a look at what is and isn’t affected by the shutdown. The government will remain partly shuttered until at least Tuesday, because both chambers of Congress are adjourned until then. Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion, and our crossword puzzles. ____ 2. The shutdown has lasted a full pay cycle for the 800,000 federal employees who are not working or working without pay. Here’s what the shutdown would look like if it happened in other industries. The workers affected range from people earning $100,000 a year to those making a quarter of that. Many are frustrated with the impasse. “They have to realize that this affects everyday people,” said a corrections officer at a federal prison in Florida. Native American tribes are also being hit hard by the shutdown. Their treaties with the U.S. government guarantee funding for services like health care and education, and the work is often done by tribal employees whose salaries rely on federal money, or by federal workers, some of whom are tribal citizens. Above, a patient at the Sault Tribe Health and Human Services in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. ___ 3. The stalemate over the border wall is an early test of the new political dynamic in Washington, where Democrats have just taken control of the House for the first time in eight years. While Democrats capitulated on an immigration issue just a few days into a shutdown early last year, they are looking at a more favorable Senate map in 2020, and do not seem to think there’s as much political risk in standing firm against President Trump. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, above, was elected speaker of the House on Thursday, making her second in line to the presidency after Vice President Mike Pence. We followed her rise from the well-mannered daughter of a Baltimore mayor to the highest-ranking woman in American political history. ___ 4. The 2020 primary competition is underway, with Senator Elizabeth Warren now in the race and several other women likely to be contenders. Despite the so-called Year of the Woman and the midterm gains that followed, there’s a lingering worry among some Democrats about the risks of nominating a woman to take on President Trump. Above, Ms. Warren, the senator from Massachusetts, in Iowa. The Democratic primary is expected to draw an unusually large number of candidates. Our political correspondents look at who is likely to run and how timing changes everything. One potential candidate, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, is now dealing with accusations that women working on his 2016 presidential campaign were sexually harassed and paid less than men. ____ 5. Investors received good news on Friday: The Labor Department reported one of the strongest months of job gains in a decade, with employers adding 312,000 jobs in December. And wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to increase more quickly. Stocks rose after the Labor Department announcement, and picked up even more after Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, acknowledged the market’s concerns about rising interest rates and said the Fed would remain flexible in the face of market turbulence and signs that the global economy is slowing. ____ 6. His family says he is a Marine Corps veteran who was in Moscow to attend a wedding. The Russian authorities have accused him of being a spy. Whatever the truth, Paul Whelan, 48, above, an American arrested in Russia last month, has become the latest pawn between Russia and the U.S. as rising tensions recall the Cold War years. Mr. Whelan also has British, Canadian and Irish citizenship, officials said Friday. Former American officials said Russia might have miscalculated by picking a fight not just with the U.S., but with a larger part of the international community. ____ 7. For the first time in 16 years, Apple reduced its revenue expectations, citing poor iPhone sales in China. It was the clearest confirmation yet that the Chinese economy is in serious trouble. “Apple is a bellwether,” said a chief economist at Moody’s Analytics. Elsewhere in the business world, Tesla reported a record quarter on Wednesday and announced it was cutting prices of all models by $2,000. Investors responded with a sell-off. And driverless cars in Arizona are under literal attack by residents who, for a variety of reasons, don’t want the vehicles roaming around their neighborhoods. ____ 8. China opened a “new chapter” in space exploration on Thursday, landing a vehicle on the far side of the moon for the first time in history, the country’s space agency announced. Above, an image taken by the rover, called Chang’e-4 after the moon goddess in Chinese mythology. Earlier in the week, NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft made its flyby of the most distant object ever visited: a small, icy world nicknamed Ultima Thule. The team will have to wait 20 months for all of the spacecraft’s data and images to return to Earth, but here’s what we know — and have seen — so far. ____ 9. When someone commits a crime, the police in New York City can have a victim or witness scroll through hundreds of mug shots matching the perpetrator’s description, in hopes the culprit is among them. But these open-ended photo searches can increase the likelihood of ensnaring an innocent person, and many other large police departments say they don’t rely on the technique. St. Clair Steward, above, was jailed for more than two months after a victim picked him from his mug shot, the 31st that he was shown. His case was dismissed after a DNA sample from the crime scene did not match his. ____ 10. Finally, if one of your New Year’s resolutions is to read more amazing journalism, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads. This week, we hear how women over 50 are making new friends, catch up with our 52 Places writer after a year of almost nonstop travel, and look at the rise and fall of Carlos Ghosn, the ousted Nissan executive. You can also check out The Carpetbagger’s predictions for which movies will win at the Golden Globes tonight. Have a glittering week. Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.", "id": "5c31e1353a125f5075c0309b", "date": "2019-01-06T11:06:27+0000"}, {"type": "nyt", "headline": "Five Ways Elizabeth Warren (and Other 2020 Hopefuls) Will Campaign When There’s No Campaign Yet", "full_text": " The new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next year’s presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away? Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates’ debate this June. [Read about Ms. Warren’s entry to the race and Iowa trip.] The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the party’s standard-bearer in 2020. Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who don’t establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable. “Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because it’s an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary,” said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats’ Iowa operations. [Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.] The exact timing of Ms. Warren’s announcement — Dec. 31 — is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions — a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race. Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it. Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warren’s “Nevertheless, we persist,” or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown’s “the dignity of work.” Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works. Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences. “With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders,” Ms. Belin said. “You can’t predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But it’s important to really find your message and appeal to people.” “We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, ‘I can’t decide because I’ve only met this candidate twice,’ but there’s some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run,” she added. Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in America’s heartland. “She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I don’t think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to,” Mr. Crawford said. “She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here,” rather than big rallies. It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates. Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland. Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early. Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details. “In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people,” Mr. Delaney said in an interview. “ I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.” On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes. “Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America,” said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group. She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy. “Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality,” she said. Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it. Ms. Warren’s biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporter’s question this week about the DNA test by saying she had “put it all out there” and people could see the information for themselves. Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, “If they’ve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.” “They need to be very straightforward about it,” he added. Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California. The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities. Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.   ", "id": "5c2c8bad3a125f5075c02838", "date": "2019-01-02T10:00:05+0000"}]